   Claim: Red Sundown
 screenplay was written by
  Martin Berkeley; based
   on a story by Lewis...
                                                       Sentence Retrieval
                               Evidence                                              Verdict       Verdict:
                               Retriever                                            Predictor      Supported




     Retrieval Corpus                          Table Retrieval     Cell Selection


                             Figure 2: The pipeline of our FEVEROUS baseline.


The cost of curating evidence sets for real-world claims can be circumvented by creating artificial
claims. Thorne et al. [2018] introduced FEVER, a large-scale dataset of 185,445 claims constructed
by annotators based on Wikipedia articles. This annotation strategy was adopted to construct a
similar dataset for Danish [Nørregaard and Derczynski, 2021], and adapted for real-world climate
change-related claims [Diggelmann et al., 2021]. Jiang et al. [2020] extended this methodology to
create a dataset of 26k claims requiring multi-hop reasoning. Other annotation strategies include
Khouja [2020] who introduced a dataset of Arabic claims generating supported and unsupported
claims based on news articles.
The datasets discussed so far have primarily focused on unstructured text as evidence during the
annotation process. There is currently a small number of datasets that rely on structured information,
primarily tables. TabFact [Chen et al., 2020a] and InfoTABS [Gupta et al., 2020] contain artificial
claims to be verified on the basis of Wikipedia tables and infoboxes respectively, while SEM-TAB-
FACTS [Wang et al., 2021] requires verification on the basis of tables from scientific articles. The
latter is the only to also specify the location of the evidence in a table. Our proposed dataset is the first
which considers both structured and unstructured evidence for verification, while explicitly requiring
the retrieval of evidence.
In the related field of question answering [Bouziane et al., 2015], recent work also considered finding
answers over both tables and text. Chen et al. [2020b] proposed HybridQA, a dataset consisting of
multi-hop questions constructed by using Wikipedia tables and the introductory section of linked
entities in the table, however, their dataset assumes the table as part of the input. Based on HybridQA,
Chen et al. [2021] further required systems to retrieve relevant tables and texts by decontextualizing
questions of HybridQA and adding additional questions to remove potential biases, resulting in a total
of 45K question-answer pairs. The NaturalQA dataset [Kwiatkowski et al., 2019] is substantially
larger (about 300K) with some questions requiring to retrieve answers from tables (17%). However,
these tables are predominantly infoboxes and rarely require systems to combine information from
both text and tables.


3    FEVEROUS Dataset and Benchmark

In FEVEROUS the goal is to determine the veracity of a claim c by: i) retrieving a set of
evidence pieces E which can be either a sentence or a table cell, and ii) assigning a label
y ∈ {Supports, Refutes, Not Enough Info}. The source of evidence is derived from the English
Wikipedia (excluding pages and sections flagged to require addition references or citations), and
consists of sentences and tables obtained as follows:
Sentence. Any sentence from a Wikipedia article’s text as well as special Wikipedia phrases referring
to other articles (e.g. See also: ..., X redirects here. For other uses, see ...).
Table. A table consists of cells ci,j , where i and j specify the row and column, respectively, and a
caption q. Both cells and captions can take various formats like a single word, number or symbol,
phrases, and entire sentences. In most datasets (e.g. Chen et al. [2020a]), headers are restricted to
the first row of a table. However, tables in Wikipedia can have a more complex structure, including
multi-level headers (see Figure 1 for an example). FEVEROUS maintains the diversity of Wikipedia
tables, only filtering out those with formatting errors. For the purposes of annotation, a table caption
q is considered to be a table cell and needs to be selected explicitly if it contains information relevant


                                                       3
to the claim. We also include Wikipedia infoboxes as tables, as well as lists. We consider the latter to
be special tables where the number of items in the list yields the number of columns and the number
of nested lists yields the number of rows. For example, c1,5 represents the item of a nested list at
depth 1 found at the fifth position of the main list.
The evidence retrieval in FEVEROUS considers the entirety of a Wikipedia article and thus the
evidence can be located in any section of the article except the reference sections. The order between
all elements in an article is maintained. We associate each candidate piece of evidence with its context,
which consists of the article’s title and section titles, including the sub-sections the element is located
in. For table cells, we also include the nearest row and column headers; if the element just before the
nearest row/column is also a header, then it will be included in the context. Context adds relevant
information to understand a piece of evidence, but it is not considered a piece of evidence by itself.
Sentences and cells maintain their hyperlinks to other Wikipedia articles, if present.
Quantitative characteristics of FEVEROUS and most related fact-checking datasets (i.e. FEVER,
TabFact, and Sem-Tab-Facts) are shown in Table 1. As seen, the average claim of FEVEROUS is
more than twice as long as the other datasets. On average 1.4 sentences and 3.3 cells (or 0.8 Tables)
are required as evidence per sample, higher than both FEVER and Sem-Tab-Facts combined. Looking
into the evidence sets by type, we note that FEVEROUS is balanced, having almost an equal amount
of instances containing, either exclusively text, tables, or both as evidence. Regarding the veracity
labels, FEVEROUS is roughly balanced in terms of supported (56%) and refuted claims (39%), with
only about 5% of claims being NotEnoughInfo.

Table 1: Quantitative characteristics of FEVEROUS compared to related datasets. Claim length is
reported in tokens. Avg. Evidence is the average number of evidence pieces per claim in a dataset,
while Evidence Sets by type reports the number of unique evidence sets by type. For FEVEROUS,
combined measures the number of annotations that require evidence from both tables and sentences.
The Evidence Sets can be used as Evidence Source for SEM-TAB-FACTS and TabFact, as explored
by Schlichtkrull et al. [2020] for the latter.
          Statistic                 FEVEROUS                        FEVER             TabFact         SEM-TAB-FACTS
        Total Claims                   87,026                       185,445           117,854              5,715
      Avg. Claim Length                 25.3                          9.4               13.8                11.4
                               1.4 sentences, 3.3 cells           1.2 sentences        1 table            1.1 cells
       Avg. Evidence
                                     (0.8 tables)                                                         (1 table)
                           34,963 sentences, 28,760 tables,       296,712 sets      16,573 tables       1,085 tables
  Evidence Sets by Type
                                  24,667 combined
                                  95.6M sentences,            25.1M sentences,      16,573 tables       1,085 tables
 Size of Evidence Source
                                    11.8M tables
       Veracity Labels           49,115 Supported,            93,367 Supported,   63,723 Supported,   3,342 Supported,
                                  33,669 Refuted,              43,107 Refuted,     54,131 Refuted      2,149 Refuted,
                                     4,242 NEI                   48,973 NEI                            224 Unknown



3.1     Dataset Annotation

Each claim in the FEVEROUS dataset was constructed in two stages: 1) claim generation based on a
Wikipedia article, 2) retrieval of evidence from Wikipedia and selection of the appropriate verdict
label, i.e. claim verification. Each claim is verified by a different annotator than the one who generated
it to ensure the verification is done without knowledge of the label or the evidence. A dedicated
interface built on top of Wikipedia’s underlying software, Mediawiki (https://www.mediawiki.
org/wiki/MediaWiki) to give annotators a natural and intuitive environment for searching and
retrieving relevant information. The ElasticSearch engine, in particular the CirrusSearch Extension,
allowed for more advanced search expressions with well-defined operators and hyperlink navigation,
as well as a custom built page search functionality, enabling annotators to search for specific phrases
in an article. This interface allows for a diverse generation of claims, as annotators can easily combine
information from multiple sections or pages. See the supplementary material for screenshots of the
interface and examples of its use. We logged all of the annotators’ interactions with the platform
(e.g. search terms entered, hyperlinks clicked) and include them in the FEVEROUS dataset, as this
information could be used to refine retrieval models with additional information on intermediate
searches and search paths that led to relevant pages.


                                                              4
3.1.1   Claim Generation
To generate a claim, annotators were given a highlight of either four consecutive sentences or a
table, located anywhere in a Wikipedia page; each page is used only once, i.e. only one set of claims
is generated per page, to prevent the generation of claims that are too similar. This allowed us to
control the information that annotators used and consequently the distribution of topics in the claims.
Sentence highlights are restricted to sentences that have at least 5 tokens, whereas table highlights
must have at least 5 rows and at most 50 rows. These bounds have been chosen based on previous
work, with the rows upper bound being equal to TabFact’s and the lower bounds being equal to
HybridQA’s. While TabFact does not use lower bounds, we noticed that it is infeasible to construct
more complicated claims from tables with fewer than 5 rows.
The sentence versus table highlights ratio is 1:2. Annotators had the option to skip highlights if the
sentences/tables had formatting issues or if the content enable the creation of verifiable, unambiguous,
and objective claims (see supplementary material for the full list of requirements). For each highlight,
annotators were asked to write three different claims with the specifications described below, each
claim being a factual and well-formed sentence.
Claim using highlight only (Type I). This type of claim must use information exclusively from the
highlighted table/sentences and their context (page/section titles or headers). For sentence highlights
we did not allow claims to be paraphrases of one of the highlighted sentences, but to combine
information from the four highlighted sentences instead. For claims based on a table highlight,
annotators were asked to combine information from multiple cells if possible, using comparisons,
filters, arithmetic and min-max operations. Only for the first claim we also specified the veracity of
the generated claim, enforcing an equal balance between supported and refuted claims. This decision
was motivated by the observation that annotators have a strong tendency to write supported claims as
these are more natural to generate. For both Type II and III claims, annotators could freely decide to
create either supported, refuted, or NEI claims, as long as they adhere to the claim requirements.
Claim beyond the highlight (Type II). This type of claim must be based on the highlight, but must
also include information beyond it. Annotators could either modify the first claim they generated or
create an unrelated claim that still included information from the highlight. Furthermore, we enforced
with equal probability whether the claim had to use information exclusively from the same page or
from multiple pages. For the latter, annotators were allowed to navigate Wikipedia using the search
engine and page search tools previously described.
Mutated Claim (Type III). We asked annotators to modify one of the two claims previously generated
using one of the following ‘mutations’: More Specific, Generalization, Negation, Paraphrasing, or
Entity Substitution, with probabilities 0.15, 0.15, 0.3, 0.1, 0.3, respectively. These mutations are
similar, but less restrictive than those used in FEVER (see supplementary material). Annotators were
allowed to navigate Wikipedia freely to extract information for generating this claim.
For each generated claim, the annotators were also asked to specify the main challenge they expect
a fact-checker would face when verifying that claim, selecting one out of six challenge categories:
claims that require evidence from two or more sections or articles (Multi-hop Reasoning), combina-
tion of structured and unstructured evidence (Combining Tables and Text), reasoning that involves
numbers or arithmetic operations (Numerical Reasoning), disambiguation of entities in claims (Entity
Disambiguation), requiring search terms beyond entities mentioned in claim (Search terms not in
claim), and Other.

3.1.2   Claim Verification
Given a claim from the previous annotation step, annotators were asked to retrieve evidence and
determine whether a claim is supported or refuted by evidence found on Wikipedia. Each annotation
may contain up to three possibly partially overlapping evidence sets, and each set leads to the same
verdict independently. For supported claims, every piece of information has to be verified by evidence,
whereas for refuted claims, the evidence only needs to be sufficient to refute one part of the claim.
If the verification of a claim requires to include every entry in a table row/column (e.g. claims with
universal quantification such as “highest number of gold medals out of all countries”), each cell of
that row/column is highlighted. In some cases, a claim can be considered unverifiable (Not Enough
Information; NEI) if not enough information can be found on Wikipedia to arrive at one of the two
other verdicts. In contrast to FEVER dataset, we also require annotated evidence for NEI claims


                                                   5
capturing the most relevant information to verification of the claim, even if that was not possible. This
ensures that all verdict labels are equally difficult to predict correctly, as they all require evidence.
Starting from the Wikipedia search page, annotators were allowed to navigate freely through
Wikipedia to find relevant evidence. They were also shown the associated context of the selected
evidence in order to assess whether the evidence is sufficient on its own given the context or whether
additional evidence needs to be highlighted. Before submitting, annotators were shown a confirmation
screen with the highlighted evidence, the context, and the selected verdict, to ensure that all required
evidence has been highlighted and that they are confident in the label they have selected.
While we require information to be explicitly mentioned in the evidence in order to support a claim,
we noticed that requesting the same for refuting claims would lead to counter-intuitive verdict labels.
For example, “Shakira is Canadian” would be labelled as NEI when we consider the evidence
“Shakira is a Colombian singer, songwriter, dancer, and record producer” and no mention of Shakira
having a second nationality or any other relation to Canada. A NEI verdict in this case is rather forced
and unnatural, as there is no reason to believe that Shakira could be Canadian given the Wikipedia
article. To address these cases, we added a guideline question “Would you consider yourself misled
by the claim given the evidence you found?”, so that, if answered yes (as in the above example),
claims are labelled as Refuted, otherwise they are labelled NEI. This label rationale is different from
FEVER for which explicit evidence is required to refute a claim. While it could be argued that, our
approach to labelling claims leaves potentially more room for ambiguity as the decision partially
depends on what the annotator expects to find on a Wikipedia page and whether a claim adheres
to the Grice’s Maxim of Quantity (being as informative as possible, giving as much information
as needed), our quality assessment shows that verdict agreement is very high when the annotated
evidence is identical (see Section 3.2).
After finishing the verification of the given claim, annotators then had to specify the main challenge
for verifying it, using the same six challenge categories as for the challenge prediction in section 7.9.
Examples and quantitative characteristics on expected and actual challenges can be found in the
supplementary material.


3.2   Quality Control

Annotators: Annotators were hired through an external contractor. A total of 57 and 54 annotators
were employed for the claim generation and claim verification stages respectively.The annotations
were supervised by three project managers as well as the authors of this paper. For claim generation,
half of the annotators were native US-English speakers, while the other half were language-aware
(an upper education degree in a language-related subject). English speakers from the Philippines,
whereas the evidence annotators had to be language-aware native US-English speakers. The annotator
candidates were screened internally by the external contractor to assess their suitability for this
task. The screening followed a two-stage process. First, the candidates’ English proficiency was
assessed through grammatical, spelling, and fluency tests. Second, the candidates were asked to give
a sentence-long summary for a given paragraph that they would then be asked to mutate by means of
negation or entity substitution, similarly to Section 7.9. The same screening procedure was used for
both tasks, with the difference that the minimum score was set higher for the claim verification part.
Details on the annotator demographics can be found in the supplementary material.


Calibration: Due to the complexity of the annotation, we used a two-phase calibration procedure
for training and selecting annotators. For this purpose, highlights with generated claims annotated
with evidence and verdicts were created by the authors to cover a variety of scenarios. While the first
calibration phase aimed at familiarizing the annotators with the task, the second phase contained more
difficult examples and special cases. Annotators had to annotate a total of ten highlights/claims in each
calibration phase. Annotations for claim generation were graded by the project managers in a binary
fashion, i.e. whether a claim adheres to the guideline requirements or not and whether the expected
challenge is appropriate. For claim verification they were graded using the gold annotations by the
authors using label accuracy, evidence precision/recall (see Section 5.1), the number of complete
evidence sets, and selected verification challenge. Before continuing with the second calibration
phase, annotators had to review the scores and feedback they received in the first phase. Based on the
scores in both phases, the project managers approved or rejected each annotator, with an approval


                                                   6
rate of 40% for claim generation and 54% for claim verification, with a total of 141 and 100 claim
generation and verification candidates, respectively.

Quality Assurance: Generated claims were quality checked by claim verification annotators who
had to report those that did not adhere to the claim requirements, specifying the reason(s). 2534 claims
were reported with the most common reason being Ungrammatical, spelling mistakes, typographical
errors, followed by Cannot be verified using any publicly available information.
Around 10% of the claim verification annotations (8474 samples) were used for quality assurance.
We measured two-way IAA using 66% of these samples, and three-way agreement with the remaining
33%. The samples were selected randomly proportionally to the number of annotations by each
annotator. The κ over the verdict label was 0.65 both for two-way and three-way agreement. Duplicate
annotations (and hence disagreements) due to measuring IAA are not considered for the dataset
itself. These IAA scores are slightly lower than the ones reported for FEVER dataset (0.68), however
the complexity of FEVEROUS is greater as entire Wikipedia pages with both text and tables are
considered as evidence instead of only sentences from the introductory sections. TabFact has an
agreement of 0.75, yet in TabFact the (correct) evidence is given to the annotators. If we only look at
claims where annotators chose identical evidence, verdict agreement in FEVEROUS is very high
(0.92), showing that most disagreement is caused by the evidence annotation. Pairs of annotators
annotated the same evidence for 42% of the claims and partially overlapping evidence of at least 70%
for 74% of them. In 27% of the claims the evidence of one annotator is a proper subsets of another,
indicating that in some cases evidence might provide more information than required, e.g. identical
information that should have been assigned to two different evidence set.
Further analysing the cases of disagreement, we observe that in a third of two-way IAA disagreement
cases one annotator selected NEI, which is disproportionately high considering NEI claims make
up only 5% of the dataset, again indicating that the retrieval of evidence is a crucial part of the
verification task. For the other two-thirds, when annotators selected opposite veracity labels we
identified four sources of disagreement: (i) numerical claims that require counting a large number of
cells, so small counting errors lead to opposing labels (ii) long claims with a refutable detail that had
been overlooked and hence classified erroneously (iii) not finding evidence that refutes/supports a
claim due to relevant pages being difficult to find (e.g. when the article’s title does not appear in the
claim) (iv) accidental errors/noise, likely caused by the complexity of the task. Looking into the IAA
between every annotator pair shows an overall consistent annotation quality with a standard deviation
of 0.07 and a total of 10 annotators with an average IAA of below 0.60, and 8 being higher than 0.70.

Dataset Artifacts & Biases: To counteract possible dataset artifacts, we measured the association
between several variables, using normalized PMI throughout the annotation process. We found that
no strong co-occurrence was measured between the verdict and the words in the claim, indicating
that no claim-only bias [Schuster et al., 2019] is present in the dataset. We observed the following
correlations: an evidence table/sentence being the first element on a page with supported verdict
(nPMI=0.14) and after position 20 with NEI verdict (nPMI=0.09); words ’which/who’ with Claim
Type II as well as mutation type More specific and Entity Substitution (nPMI=0.07); Claim Type II
with supported verdict (nPMI=0.17) and Claim Type III with refuted label (nPMI=0.23). The latter
can most likely be attributed to the Negation and Entity substitution mutations. Since we do not
release the claim-type correspondence, the association of words with claim types and mutations is
not of concern.
We also developed a claim-only baseline, which uses the claim as input and predicts the verdict
label. We opted to fine-tune a pre-trained BERT model [Devlin et al., 2019] with a linear layer on
top and measured its accuracy using 5-fold cross-validation. This claim-only baseline achieves 0.58
label accuracy, compared to the majority baseline being 0.56. Compared to FEVER where a similar
claim-only baseline achieves a score of about 0.62 over a majority baseline of 0.33 [Schuster et al.,
2019], the artefacts in FEVEROUS appear to be minimal in this respect. Regarding the position of
the evidence, we observed that cell evidence tends to be located in the first half of a table. For smaller
tables, evidence is more evenly distributed across rows. Moreover, a substantial amount of claims
require using entire columns as evidence, and thus the later parts of a table as well.
Finally, we trained a claim-only evidence type model to predict whether a claim requires as evidence
sentences, cells, or a combination of both evidence types. The model and experimental setup were
identical to the one used to assess claim-only bias. The model achieved 0.62 accuracy, compared to


                                                    7
0.43 using the majority baseline, suggesting that the claims are to some extent indicative of the type,
but a strong system would need to look at the evidence as well.


4     Baseline Model

Retriever Our baseline retriever module is a combination of entity matching and TF-IDF using
DrQA [Chen et al., 2017]. Combining both has previously been shown to work well, particularly for
retrieving tables [Schlichtkrull et al., 2020]. We first extract the top k pages by matching extracted
entities from the claim with Wikipedia articles. If less than k pages have been identified this way, the
remaining pages are selected by Tf-IDF matching between the introductory sentence of an article
and the claim. The top l sentences and q tables of the selected pages are then scored separately using
TF-IDF. We set k = 5, l = 5 and q = 3.
For each of the q retrieved tables, we retrieve the most relevant cells by linearizing the table and
treating the retrieval of cells as a binary sequence labelling task. The underlying model is a fine-tuned
RoBERTa model with the claim concatenated with the respective table as input. When fine-tuning,
we deploy row sampling, similar to Oguz et al. [2020], to ensure that the tables used during training
fit into the input of the model.

Verdict prediction Given the retrieved evidence, we predict the verdict label using a RoBERTa
encoder with a linear layer on top. Table cells are linearized to be used as a evidence, following
Schlichtkrull et al. [2020] who showed that a RoBERTa based model with the right linearization
performs better than models taking table structure into account. Linearization of a table’s content
enables cross-attention between cells and sentences by simply concatenating all evidence in the input
of the model. For each piece of evidence, we concatenate its context ensuring that the page title
appears only once, at the beginning of the evidence retrieved from it.
The verdict predictor is trained on labelled claims with associated cell and sentence evidence and
their context. The FEVEROUS dataset is rather imbalanced regarding NEI labels (5% of claims), so
we sample additional NEI instances for training by modifying annotations that contain both cell and
sentence evidence by removing either a sentence or an entire table. We additionally explore the use
of a RoBERTa model that has been pre-trained on various NLI datasets (SNLI [Bowman et al., 2015],
MNLI [Williams et al., 2018], and an NLI-version of FEVER, proposed by Nie et al. [2020]).


5     Experiments

5.1   Dataset splits and evaluation

The dataset is split into a training, development and test split in a ratio of about 0.8, 0.1, 0.1. We
further ensured that all three claims generated from a highlight are assigned to the same split to
prevent claims in the development and test splits from being too similar to the ones in training
data. Quantitative characteristics are shown in Table 2. Due to the scarcity of NEI instances, we
maintained a rough label balance only for the test set. In all splits, the number of evidence sets with
only sentences as evidence is slightly higher than sets that contain only cell evidence or sets that
require a combination of different evidence types.


                  Table 2: Quantitative characteristics of each split in FEVEROUS.
                                 Train             Dev             Test         Total
         Supported            41,835 (59%)     3,908 (50%)      3,372 (43%)     49,115 (56%)
         Refuted              27,215 (38%)     3,481 (44%)      2,973 (38%)     33,669 (39%)
         NEI                   2,241 (3%)       501 (6%)        1,500 (19%)      4,242 (5%)
         Total                   71,291            7,890           7,845            87,026
         ESentences           31,607 (41%)     3,745 (43%)      3589 (42%)      38,941 (41%)
         ECells               25,020 (32%)     2,738 (32%)      2816 (33%)      30,574 (32%)
         ESentence+Cells      20,865 (27%)     2,468 (25%)      2062 (24%)      25,395 (27%)


                                                   8
The evaluation considers the correct prediction of the verdict as well as the correct retrieval of
evidence. Retrieving relevant evidence is an important requirement, given that it provides a basic
justification for the label, which is essential to convince the users of the capabilities of a verification
system and to assess its correctness [Uscinski and Butler, 2013, Lipton, 2016, Kotonya and Toni,
2020a]. Without evidence, the ability to detect machine-generated misinformation is inherently
limited [Schuster et al., 2020]. The FEVEROUS score is therefore defined for an instance as follows:
                                                
                                                  1 ∃E ∈ E : E ⊆ Ê ∧ ŷ = y,
                         Score(y, ŷ, E, Ê) =                                                          (1)
                                                  0 otherwise

with ŷ and Ê being the predicted label and evidence, respectively, and E the collection of gold
evidence sets. Thus, a prediction is scored 1 iff at least one complete evidence set E is a subset
of Ê and the predicted label is correct, else 0. The rationale behind not including precision in the
score is that we recognise that the evidence annotations are unlikely to be exhaustive, and measuring
precision would thus penalize potentially correct evidence that was not annotated. Instead, we set
an upper bound on the number of elements to be allowed in Ê to s table cells and l sentences. This
distinction was made because the number of cells used as evidence is typically higher than the number
of sentences. s is set to 25 and l to 5, ensuring that the upper bound covers the required number of
evidence pieces for every instance E in both development and test set.
The FEVEROUS dataset was used for the shared task of the FEVER Workshop 2021 [Aly et al.,
2021], with the same splits and evaluation as presented in this paper.

5.2   Results

Table 3 shows the results of our full baseline compared to a sentence-only and a table-only baseline.All
baselines use our TF-IDF retriever with the sentence-only and table-only baseline extracting sentences
and tables only, respectively. While the sentence-only model predicts the verdict label using only
extracted sentences, the the table-only baseline only extracts the cells from retrieved tables with
our cell extractor model and predicts the verdict by linearising the selected cells and their context.
All models use our verdict predictor for classification. Our baseline that combines both tables and
sentences achieves substantially higher sores than when focusing exclusively on either sentences or
tables.

Table 3: FEVEROUS scores for the sentence-only, table-only, and full baseline for both development
and test set. Evidence measures the full coverage of evidence (i.e. Eq. 1 without the condition on
correct prediction ŷ = y).

                                                      Dev                    Test
                           Model
                                              Score    Evidence      Score    Evidence
                  Sentence-only baseline      0.13        0.19       0.12        0.19
                   Table-only baseline        0.05        0.07       0.05        0.07
                       Full baseline           0.19       0.29       0.18        0.29


Evidence Retrieval To measure the performance of the evidence retrieval module for retrieved
evidence Ê, we measure both the Recall@k on a document level as well as on a passage level (i.e.
sentences and tables). Results are shown in Table 4. As seen for k = 5 the retriever achieves a
document coverage of 69%. The top 5 retrieved sentences cover 53% of all sentences while the
top 3 tables have a coverage of 56%, highlighting the effectiveness of our retriever to retrieve both
sentences and tables. The overall passage recall is 0.55%. For comparison a TF-IDF retriever without
entity matching achieves a coverage of only 49%.
Extracting evidence cells when the cell extraction model is given the gold table for the claim from
the annotated data leads to a cell recall of 0.69, with a recall of 0.74 when a table contains only a
single cell as evidence. Extracted cells from the retrieved tables in combination with the extracted
sentences fully cover the evidence of 29% samples in the dev set.


                                                      9
Verdict prediction The right side of Table 4 shows oracle results (i.e. when given the correct
evidence), as well as results without NEI sampling and without an NLI pre-trained model. Without
the NEI sampling, the model is not able to recognise a single NEI sample correctly. NLI pre-training
further increases results, resulting in a macro-averaged F1 of 0.70.


Table 4: (left) Document and passage (sentence + tables) coverage for the retrieval module. (right)
Verdict classification using gold evidence. NLI denotes pre-training on NLI corpora and NEI NEI
sampling. Scores are reported in per-class F1 . The overall score is reported using macro-averaged F1 .
All results are reported on the dev set.

      top   Doc (%)   Sent (%)   Tab (%)
                                               Model          Supported     Refuted    NEI    Overall
      1      0.39       0.23       0.45
                                               RoBERTa          0.89         0.87      0.05    0.53
      2      0.49       0.37       0.54
                                                +NLI            0.90         0.88      0.09    0.62
      3      0.58       0.46       0.56
                                                +NLI+NEI        0.89         0.87      0.34    0.70
      5      0.69       0.53         -



5.3     Discussion

Retrieval of structured information. While the verdict predictor combines information from
both evidence types, our retrieval system extracts structured and unstructured information largely
independently. However, tables are often specified and described by surrounding sentences. For
instance [Zayats et al., 2021] enhance Wikipedia table representations by using additional context
from surrounding text. Thus, sentences provide important context to tables to be understood and
related to the claim (and vice versa). Moreover, we have ignored hyperlinks in our model, yet they
are excellent for entity grounding and disambiguation, adding context to both tables and sentences.
Numerical Reasoning. An aspect currently ignored by our baseline is that a substantial number of
claims in FEVEROUS require numerical reasoning (for about 10% of claims numerical reasoning
was selected as the main verification challenge), ranging from simply counting matching cells to
arithmetic operations. Dua et al. [2019] showed that reading comprehension models lack the ability
to do simple arithmetic operations.
Verification of complex claims. Compared to previous datasets, the length of claims and number of
required evidence is substantially higher. As a result, more pieces of evidence per claim need to be
retrieved and related to each other. This opens opportunities to explore the effect of the order in which
each part of a claim is being verified and how evidence is conditioned on each other. To facilitate
research in this direction, FEVEROUS contains for each annotation a list of operations (e.g. searched
..., clicked on hyperlink ...) that an annotator used to verify a claim (see supplementary material).
Ecological Validity Incorporating information from both text and tables for fact-checking enables
the verification of more complex claims than previous large-scale datasets, ultimately enhancing
the practical relevance of automated fact-checking systems. However, FEVEROUS still simplifies
real-world claims substantially, by controlling many variables of the claim generation process. For
instance, it ignores the common strategy of biased evidence employed for generating misleading
claims in the real world, also referred to as cherry picking, where facts which are true in isolation are
being taken out of context, resulting in an overall false claim.


6      Conclusion

This paper introduced FEVEROUS, the first large-scale dataset and benchmark for fact verification
that includes both unstructured and structured information. We described the annotation process
and the steps taken to minimise biases and dataset artefacts during construction, and discussed
aspects in which FEVEROUS differs from other fact-checking datasets. We proposed a baseline that
retrieves sentences and table cells to predict the verdict using both types of evidence, and showed
that it outperforms sentence-only and table-only baselines. With the baseline achieving a score of
0.18 we believe that FEVEROUS is a challenging yet attractive benchmark for the development of
fact-checking systems.


                                                   10
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Amazon for sponsoring the dataset generation and supporting the FEVER
workshop and shared task. The dataset generation and its public release was coordinated by the
University of Cambridge. Rami Aly is supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research
Council Doctoral Training Partnership (EPSRC). James Thorne is supported by an Amazon Alexa
Graduate Research Fellowship. Zhijiang Guo, Michael Schlichtkrull and Andreas Vlachos are
supported by the ERC grant AVeriTeC (GA 865958).

References
Tariq Alhindi, Savvas Petridis, and Smaranda Muresan. Where is your evidence: Improving fact-
  checking by justification modeling. In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Fact Extraction
  and VERification (FEVER), pages 85–90, Brussels, Belgium, 2018. Association for Computa-
  tional Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/W18-5513. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/
  W18-5513.
Rami Aly, Zhijiang Guo, Michael Sejr Schlichtkrull, James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos
  Christodoulopoulos, Oana Cocarascu, and Arpit Mittal. The fact extraction and verification
  over unstructured and structured information (feverous) shared task. In Proceedings of the
  Fourth Workshop on Fact Extraction and VERification (FEVER). Association for Computational
  Linguistics, November 2021.
Isabelle Augenstein, Christina Lioma, Dongsheng Wang, Lucas Chaves Lima, Casper Hansen,
   Christian Hansen, and Jakob Grue Simonsen. MultiFC: A Real-World Multi-Domain Dataset for
   Evidence-Based Fact Checking of Claims. arXiv:1909.03242 [cs, stat], October 2019.
Ramy Baly, Mitra Mohtarami, James Glass, Lluís Màrquez, Alessandro Moschitti, and Preslav
  Nakov. Integrating stance detection and fact checking in a unified corpus. In Proceedings
  of the 2018 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational
  Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 2 (Short Papers), pages 21–27, New Orleans,
  Louisiana, 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N18-2004. URL
  https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N18-2004.
Emily M. Bender and Batya Friedman. Data Statements for Natural Language Processing: Toward
 Mitigating System Bias and Enabling Better Science. Transactions of the Association for Compu-
 tational Linguistics, 6:587–604, 12 2018. ISSN 2307-387X. doi: 10.1162/tacl_a_00041. URL
 https://doi.org/10.1162/tacl_a_00041.
Abdelghani Bouziane, Djelloul Bouchiha, Noureddine Doumi, and Mimoun Malki. Question
  answering systems: Survey and trends. Procedia Computer Science, 73:366–375, 2015. ISSN
 1877-0509. doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2015.12.005.
Samuel R. Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D. Manning. A large
  annotated corpus for learning natural language inference. In Proceedings of the 2015 Conference on
  Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 632–642, Lisbon, Portugal, September
  2015. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D15-1075. URL https:
  //www.aclweb.org/anthology/D15-1075.
Danqi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and Antoine Bordes. Reading Wikipedia to answer
  open-domain questions. In Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), 2017.
Wenhu Chen, Hongmin Wang, Jianshu Chen, Yunkai Zhang, Hong Wang, Shiyang Li, Xiyou Zhou,
 and William Yang Wang. TabFact: A Large-scale Dataset for Table-based Fact Verification.
 arXiv:1909.02164 [cs], June 2020a.
Wenhu Chen, Hanwen Zha, Zhiyu Chen, Wenhan Xiong, Hong Wang, and William Yang Wang.
 HybridQA: A dataset of multi-hop question answering over tabular and textual data. In Findings of
 the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020, pages 1026–1036, Online, Novem-
 ber 2020b. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.findings-emnlp.91.
 URL https://aclanthology.org/2020.findings-emnlp.91.


                                                11
Wenhu Chen, Ming-Wei Chang, Eva Schlinger, William Yang Wang, and William W. Cohen. Open
 question answering over tables and text. In International Conference on Learning Representations,
 2021. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=MmCRswl1UYl.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. BERT: Pre-training of deep
  bidirectional transformers for language understanding. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of
  the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
  Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages 4171–4186, Minneapolis, Minnesota,
  June 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N19-1423. URL https:
  //www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423.
Thomas Diggelmann, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Jannis Bulian, Massimiliano Ciaramita, and Markus
  Leippold. CLIMATE-FEVER: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims.
  arXiv:2012.00614 [cs], January 2021.
Dheeru Dua, Yizhong Wang, Pradeep Dasigi, Gabriel Stanovsky, Sameer Singh, and Matt Gardner.
  DROP: A reading comprehension benchmark requiring discrete reasoning over paragraphs. In
 Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Compu-
  tational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages
  2368–2378, Minneapolis, Minnesota, June 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:
 10.18653/v1/N19-1246. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1246.
Lucas Graves. Understanding the promise and limits of automated fact-checking. Technical report,
  2018.
Vivek Gupta, Maitrey Mehta, Pegah Nokhiz, and Vivek Srikumar. INFOTABS: Inference on Tables
  as Semi-structured Data. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for
  Computational Linguistics, pages 2309–2324, Online, July 2020. Association for Computational
  Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.acl-main.210.
Andreas Hanselowski, Christian Stab, Claudia Schulz, Zile Li, and Iryna Gurevych. A Richly
 Annotated Corpus for Different Tasks in Automated Fact-Checking. In Proceedings of the 23rd
 Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL), pages 493–503, Hong Kong,
  China, November 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/K19-1046.
Momchil Hardalov, Arnav Arora, Preslav Nakov, and Isabelle Augenstein. A survey on stance
 detection for mis- and disinformation identification. ArXiv, abs/2103.00242, 2021.
Yichen Jiang, Shikha Bordia, Zheng Zhong, Charles Dognin, Maneesh Singh, and Mohit Bansal.
  HoVer: A Dataset for Many-Hop Fact Extraction And Claim Verification. arXiv:2011.03088 [cs],
  November 2020.
Jude Khouja. Stance prediction and claim verification: An Arabic perspective. In Proceedings of
  the Third Workshop on Fact Extraction and VERification (FEVER), pages 8–17, Online, 2020.
  Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.fever-1.2. URL https:
  //www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.fever-1.2.
Neema Kotonya and Francesca Toni. Explainable automated fact-checking: A survey. In Proceedings
  of the 28th International Conference on Computational Linguistics, pages 5430–5443, Barcelona,
  Spain (Online), 2020a. International Committee on Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/
  v1/2020.coling-main.474. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.coling-main.
  474.
Neema Kotonya and Francesca Toni. Explainable automated fact-checking for public health claims.
  In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Process-
  ing (EMNLP), pages 7740–7754, Online, 2020b. Association for Computational Linguistics.
  doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.623. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.
  emnlp-main.623.
Tom Kwiatkowski, Jennimaria Palomaki, Olivia Redfield, Michael Collins, Ankur Parikh, Chris
  Alberti, Danielle Epstein, Illia Polosukhin, Matthew Kelcey, Jacob Devlin, Kenton Lee, Kristina N.
  Toutanova, Llion Jones, Ming-Wei Chang, Andrew Dai, Jakob Uszkoreit, Quoc Le, and Slav Petrov.
  Natural questions: A benchmark for question answering research. Transactions of the Association
  of Computational Linguistics, 2019.


                                                12
Zachary C Lipton. The mythos of model interpretability. ICML 2016 Workshop on Human Inter-
  pretability in Machine Learning, 2016.
Preslav Nakov, D. Corney, Maram Hasanain, Firoj Alam, Tamer Elsayed, A. Barrón-Cedeño, Paolo
  Papotti, Shaden Shaar, and Giovanni Da San Martino. Automated fact-checking for assisting
  human fact-checkers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.07769, 2021.
Yixin Nie, Adina Williams, Emily Dinan, Mohit Bansal, Jason Weston, and Douwe Kiela. Adver-
  sarial NLI: A new benchmark for natural language understanding. In Proceedings of the 58th
  Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics. Association for Computational
  Linguistics, 2020.
Jeppe Nørregaard and Leon Derczynski. Danfever: claim verification dataset for danish. In Proceed-
  ings of NODALIDA, 2021.
Barlas Oguz, Xilun Chen, Vladimir Karpukhin, Stan Peshterliev, Dmytro Okhonko, Michael
  Schlichtkrull, Sonal Gupta, Yashar Mehdad, and Scott Yih. Unified open-domain question answer-
  ing with structured and unstructured knowledge. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.14610, 2020.
Kashyap Popat, Subhabrata Mukherjee, Jannik Strötgen, and Gerhard Weikum. Credibility assessment
  of textual claims on the web. In Snehasis Mukhopadhyay, ChengXiang Zhai, Elisa Bertino,
  Fabio Crestani, Javed Mostafa, Jie Tang, Luo Si, Xiaofang Zhou, Yi Chang, Yunyao Li, and
  Parikshit Sondhi, editors, Proceedings of the 25th ACM International Conference on Information
  and Knowledge Management, CIKM 2016, Indianapolis, IN, USA, October 24-28, 2016, pages
  2173–2178. ACM, 2016. doi: 10.1145/2983323.2983661. URL https://doi.org/10.1145/
  2983323.2983661.
Michael Schlichtkrull, Vladimir Karpukhin, Barlas Oğuz, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, and Sebastian
 Riedel. Joint verification and reranking for open fact checking over tables. arXiv preprint
 arXiv:2012.15115, 2020.
Tal Schuster, Darsh Shah, Yun Jie Serene Yeo, Daniel Roberto Filizzola Ortiz, Enrico Santus,
  and Regina Barzilay. Towards debiasing fact verification models. In Proceedings of the 2019
  Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International
  Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 3419–3425, Hong
  Kong, China, 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/D19-1341. URL
  https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/D19-1341.
Tal Schuster, Roei Schuster, Darsh J. Shah, and Regina Barzilay. The limitations of stylometry for
  detecting machine-generated fake news. Computational Linguistics, 46(2):499–510, 2020. doi:
  10.1162/coli_a_00380. URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.cl-2.8.
James Thorne and Andreas Vlachos. Automated fact checking: Task formulations, methods and future
  directions. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Computational Linguistics,
  pages 3346–3359, Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA, 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics.
  URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/C18-1283.
James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos, Christos Christodoulopoulos, and Arpit Mittal. FEVER: A Large-
  scale Dataset for Fact Extraction and VERification. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of
  the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language
  Technologies, pages 809–819, New Orleans, Louisiana, June 2018. doi: 10.18653/v1/N18-1074.
J. Uscinski and Ryden W. Butler. The epistemology of fact checking. Critical Review, 25:162 – 180,
   2013.
David Wadden, Shanchuan Lin, Kyle Lo, Lucy Lu Wang, Madeleine van Zuylen, Arman Cohan,
  and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. Fact or fiction: Verifying scientific claims. In Proceedings of the 2020
  Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 7534–7550,
  Online, 2020. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/2020.emnlp-main.609.
  URL https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.emnlp-main.609.
Nancy (Xin Ru) Wang, Sara Rosenthal, and Marina Danilevsky. Statement verification and evidence
  finding with tables, semeval 2021 (task 9). In Proc. of SemEval, 2021.


                                                13
William Yang Wang. "Liar, Liar Pants on Fire": A New Benchmark Dataset for Fake News Detection.
 arXiv:1705.00648 [cs], May 2017.
Adina Williams, Nikita Nangia, and Samuel Bowman. A broad-coverage challenge corpus
  for sentence understanding through inference. In Proceedings of the 2018 Conference of
  the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-
  guage Technologies, Volume 1 (Long Papers), pages 1112–1122, New Orleans, Louisiana,
 June 2018. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N18-1101. URL
  https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N18-1101.
Vicky Zayats, Kristina Toutanova, and Mari Ostendorf. Representations for question answering from
  documents with tables and text. In Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of
  the Association for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume, pages 2895–2906, Online, April
  2021. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL https://aclanthology.org/2021.
  eacl-main.253.
A. Zubiaga, A. Aker, Kalina Bontcheva, Maria Liakata, and R. Procter. Detection and resolution of
  rumours in social media. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), 51:1 – 36, 2018.


7     Supplementary Material
7.1   Access to the dataset

The FEVEROUS dataset can be accessed from the official website of the FEVER Workshop https:
//fever.ai/dataset/feverous.html and is hosted in an the same AWS S3 Bucket as the FEVER
dataset, which has been publicly available since 2018. As the authors of this paper manage the
workshop’s website they can ensure proper maintenance and access to the dataset. The hosting of
the dataset includes a retrieval corpus, as well as each split of the dataset. At the time of this paper’s
submission, the shared task is still ongoing with the unlabeled test set being kept hidden until the last
week of the shared task. Elementary code to process the data from both annotations and the provided
Wikipedia DB (e.g. extracting context for a given element, getting a table from a cell ID etc..) is
publicly available on https://github.com/Raldir/FEVEROUS. The repository also contains the
code of the annotation platform as well as the baseline’s code. The DOI for the FEVEROUS dataset
is 10.5281/zenodo.4911508 and structured metadata has been added to the webpage.
The training and development data is hosted in Jsonlines format. Jsonlines contains a single JSON
per line, encoded in UTF-8. This format allows to process one record at a time, and works well with
unix/shell pipelines. Each entry consists of five fields: The training and development data contains 5
fields:
       • id: The ID of the sample
       • label: The annotated label for the claim. Can be one of SUPPORTS|REFUTES|NOT
         ENOUGH INFO.
       • claim: The text of the claim.
       • evidence: A list (at maximum three) of evidence sets. Each set consists of dictionaries with
         two fields (content, context).
            – content: A list of element ids serving as the evidence for the claim. Each element id
              is in the format "[PAGE ID]_[EVIDENCE TYPE]_[NUMBER ID]". [EVIDENCE
              TYPE] can be sentence, cell, header_cell, table_caption, item.
            – context: A dictionary that maps each element id in content to a set of Wikipedia
              elements that are automatically associated with that element id and serve as context.
              This includes an article’s title, relevant sections (the section and sub-section(s) the
              element is located in), and for cells the closest row and column header (multiple
              row/column headers if they follow each other).
       • annotator_operations: A list of operations an annotator used to find the evidence and reach a
         verdict, given the claim. Each element in the list is a dictionary with the fields (operation,
         value, time).
            – operation: Any of the following


                                                   14
