                                         FEVEROUS: Fact Extraction and VERification Over
                                             Unstructured and Structured information


                                                   Rami Aly, Zhijiang Guo, Michael Schlichtkrull, James Thorne, Andreas Vlachos
                                                                   Department of Computer Science and Technology
                                                                              University of Cambridge
                                                                 {rmya2,zg283,mss84,jt719,av308}@cam.ac.uk




arXiv:2106.05707v3 [cs.CL] 12 Oct 2021
                                                                                  Christos Christodoulopoulos
                                                                                         Amazon Alexa
                                                                                   chrchrs@amazon.co.uk

                                                                 Oana Cocarascu                                     Arpit Mittal
                                                              Department of Informatics                              Facebook∗
                                                               King’s College London                            arpitmittal@fb.com
                                                            oana.cocarascu@kcl.ac.uk



                                                                                            Abstract

                                                      Fact verification has attracted a lot of attention in the machine learning and natural
                                                      language processing communities, as it is one of the key methods for detecting
                                                      misinformation. Existing large-scale benchmarks for this task have focused mostly
                                                      on textual sources, i.e. unstructured information, and thus ignored the wealth
                                                      of information available in structured formats, such as tables. In this paper we
                                                      introduce a novel dataset and benchmark, Fact Extraction and VERification Over
                                                      Unstructured and Structured information (FEVEROUS), which consists of 87,026
                                                      verified claims. Each claim is annotated with evidence in the form of sentences
                                                      and/or cells from tables in Wikipedia, as well as a label indicating whether this
                                                      evidence supports, refutes, or does not provide enough information to reach a
                                                      verdict. Furthermore, we detail our efforts to track and minimize the biases present
                                                      in the dataset and could be exploited by models, e.g. being able to predict the label
                                                      without using evidence. Finally, we develop a baseline for verifying claims against
                                                      text and tables which predicts both the correct evidence and verdict for 18% of the
                                                      claims.


                                         1       Introduction
                                         Interest in automating fact verification has been growing as the volume of potentially misleading
                                         and false claims rises [Graves, 2018], resulting in the development of both fully automated methods
                                         (see Thorne and Vlachos [2018], Zubiaga et al. [2018], Hardalov et al. [2021] for recent surveys) as
                                         well as technologies that can assist human journalists [Nakov et al., 2021]. This has been enabled
                                         by the creation of datasets of appropriate scale, quality, and complexity in order to develop and
                                         evaluate models for fact extraction and verification, e.g. Thorne et al. [2018], Augenstein et al. [2019].
                                         Most large-scale datasets focus exclusively on verification against textual evidence rather than tables.
                                         Furthermore, table-based datasets, e.g. Chen et al. [2020a], assume an unrealistic setting where an
                                         evidence table is provided, requiring extensions to evaluate retrieval [Schlichtkrull et al., 2020].
                                             ∗
                                                 The author started working on this project whilst at Amazon.


                                         35th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2021) Track on Datasets and Benchmarks.
                                                     Claim: Red Sundown screenplay was written by
                                                     Martin Berkeley; based on a story by Lewis B. Patten,
                                                     who often published under the names Lewis Ford,
    Claim: In the 2018 Naples general election,
                                                     Lee Leighton and Joseph Wayne.
    Roberto Fico, an Italian politician and member
    of the Five Star Movement, received 57,119
                                                     Evidence:
    votes with 57.6 percent of the total votes.
                                                                 Page: wiki/Red_Sundown
                                                                      e1 (Introduction):
    Evidence:
           Page: wiki/Roberto_Fico                                     Red Sundown
              e1 (Electoral history):                           Directed by          Jack Arnold
      2018 general election: Naples -Fuorigrotta               Produced by      Albert Zugsmith
                                                              Screenplay by      Martin Berkeley
           Candidate           Party      Votes                    Based on       Lewis B. Patten
        Roberto Fico      Five Star      61,819                               ...
      Marta Schifone    Centre-right     21,651
      Daniela Iaconis    Centre-left     15,779                 Page: wiki/Lewis_B._Patten
                                                     e2 (Introduction): He often published under the names
                  Verdict: Refuted                        Lewis Ford, Lee Leighton and Joseph Wayne.

                                                                     Verdict: Supported

Figure 1: FEVEROUS sample instances. Evidence in tables is highlighted in red. Each piece of
evidence ei has associated context, i.e. page, section title(s) and the closest row/column headers
(highlighted in dark gray). Left: evidence consists of two table cells refuting the claim. Right:
Evidence consists of two table cells and one sentence from two different pages, supporting the claim.


In this paper, we introduce a novel dataset and benchmark, FEVEROUS: Fact Extraction and
VERification Over Unstructured and Structured information, consisting of claims verified against
Wikipedia pages and labeled as supported, refuted, or not enough information. Each claim has
evidence in the form of sentences and/or cells from tables in Wikipedia. Figure 1 shows two
examples that illustrate the level of complexity of the dataset. A claim may require a single table
cell, a single sentence, or a combination of multiple sentences and cells from different articles as
evidence for verification. FEVEROUS contains 87,026 claims, manually constructed and verified
by trained annotators. Throughout the annotation process, we kept track of the two- and three-way
inter-annotator agreement (IAA) on random samples with the IAA kappa κ being 0.65 for both.
Furthermore, we checked against dataset annotation biases, such as words present in the claims that
indicate the label irrespective of evidence [Schuster et al., 2019], and ensured these are minimised.
We also develop a baseline approach to assess the feasibility of the task defined by FEVEROUS,
shown in Figure 2. We employ a combination of entity matching and TF-IDF to extract the most
relevant sentences and tables to retrieve the evidence, followed by a cell extraction model that returns
relevant cells from tables by linearizing them and treating the extraction as a sequence labelling task.
A RoBERTa classifier pre-trained on multiple NLI datasets predicts the veracity of the claim using
the retrieved evidence and its context. This baseline substantially outperforms the sentence-only and
table-only baselines. The proposed baseline predicts correctly both the evidence and the verdict label
for 18% of the claims. The retrieval module itself fully covers 28% of a claims evidence. FEVEROUS
is the first large-scale verification dataset that focuses on sentences, tables, and the combination of the
two, and we hope it will stimulate further progress in fact extraction and verification and is publicly
available online: https://fever.ai/dataset/feverous.html.

2     Literature Review
Datasets for fact verification often rely on real-world claims from fact-checking websites such as
PolitiFact. For such claims, the cost of constructing fine-grained evidence sets can be prohibitive.
Datasets therefore either leave out evidence and justifications entirely [Wang, 2017], rely on search
engines which risk including irrelevant or misleading evidence [Popat et al., 2016, Baly et al., 2018,
Augenstein et al., 2019], or bypass the retrieval challenge entirely by extracting evidence directly
from the fact checking articles [Alhindi et al., 2018, Hanselowski et al., 2019, Kotonya and Toni,
2020b] or scientific literature [Wadden et al., 2020].


                                                     2
   Claim: Red Sundown
 screenplay was written by
  Martin Berkeley; based
   on a story by Lewis...
                                                       Sentence Retrieval
                               Evidence                                              Verdict       Verdict:
                               Retriever                                            Predictor      Supported




     Retrieval Corpus                          Table Retrieval     Cell Selection


                             Figure 2: The pipeline of our FEVEROUS baseline.


The cost of curating evidence sets for real-world claims can be circumvented by creating artificial
claims. Thorne et al. [2018] introduced FEVER, a large-scale dataset of 185,445 claims constructed
by annotators based on Wikipedia articles. This annotation strategy was adopted to construct a
similar dataset for Danish [Nørregaard and Derczynski, 2021], and adapted for real-world climate
change-related claims [Diggelmann et al., 2021]. Jiang et al. [2020] extended this methodology to
create a dataset of 26k claims requiring multi-hop reasoning. Other annotation strategies include
Khouja [2020] who introduced a dataset of Arabic claims generating supported and unsupported
claims based on news articles.
The datasets discussed so far have primarily focused on unstructured text as evidence during the
annotation process. There is currently a small number of datasets that rely on structured information,
primarily tables. TabFact [Chen et al., 2020a] and InfoTABS [Gupta et al., 2020] contain artificial
claims to be verified on the basis of Wikipedia tables and infoboxes respectively, while SEM-TAB-
FACTS [Wang et al., 2021] requires verification on the basis of tables from scientific articles. The
latter is the only to also specify the location of the evidence in a table. Our proposed dataset is the first
which considers both structured and unstructured evidence for verification, while explicitly requiring
the retrieval of evidence.
In the related field of question answering [Bouziane et al., 2015], recent work also considered finding
answers over both tables and text. Chen et al. [2020b] proposed HybridQA, a dataset consisting of
multi-hop questions constructed by using Wikipedia tables and the introductory section of linked
entities in the table, however, their dataset assumes the table as part of the input. Based on HybridQA,
Chen et al. [2021] further required systems to retrieve relevant tables and texts by decontextualizing
questions of HybridQA and adding additional questions to remove potential biases, resulting in a total
of 45K question-answer pairs. The NaturalQA dataset [Kwiatkowski et al., 2019] is substantially
larger (about 300K) with some questions requiring to retrieve answers from tables (17%). However,
these tables are predominantly infoboxes and rarely require systems to combine information from
both text and tables.


3    FEVEROUS Dataset and Benchmark

In FEVEROUS the goal is to determine the veracity of a claim c by: i) retrieving a set of
evidence pieces E which can be either a sentence or a table cell, and ii) assigning a label
y ∈ {Supports, Refutes, Not Enough Info}. The source of evidence is derived from the English
Wikipedia (excluding pages and sections flagged to require addition references or citations), and
consists of sentences and tables obtained as follows:
Sentence. Any sentence from a Wikipedia article’s text as well as special Wikipedia phrases referring
to other articles (e.g. See also: ..., X redirects here. For other uses, see ...).
Table. A table consists of cells ci,j , where i and j specify the row and column, respectively, and a
caption q. Both cells and captions can take various formats like a single word, number or symbol,
phrases, and entire sentences. In most datasets (e.g. Chen et al. [2020a]), headers are restricted to
the first row of a table. However, tables in Wikipedia can have a more complex structure, including
multi-level headers (see Figure 1 for an example). FEVEROUS maintains the diversity of Wikipedia
tables, only filtering out those with formatting errors. For the purposes of annotation, a table caption
q is considered to be a table cell and needs to be selected explicitly if it contains information relevant


                                                       3
to the claim. We also include Wikipedia infoboxes as tables, as well as lists. We consider the latter to
be special tables where the number of items in the list yields the number of columns and the number
of nested lists yields the number of rows. For example, c1,5 represents the item of a nested list at
depth 1 found at the fifth position of the main list.
The evidence retrieval in FEVEROUS considers the entirety of a Wikipedia article and thus the
evidence can be located in any section of the article except the reference sections. The order between
all elements in an article is maintained. We associate each candidate piece of evidence with its context,
which consists of the article’s title and section titles, including the sub-sections the element is located
in. For table cells, we also include the nearest row and column headers; if the element just before the
nearest row/column is also a header, then it will be included in the context. Context adds relevant
information to understand a piece of evidence, but it is not considered a piece of evidence by itself.
Sentences and cells maintain their hyperlinks to other Wikipedia articles, if present.
Quantitative characteristics of FEVEROUS and most related fact-checking datasets (i.e. FEVER,
TabFact, and Sem-Tab-Facts) are shown in Table 1. As seen, the average claim of FEVEROUS is
more than twice as long as the other datasets. On average 1.4 sentences and 3.3 cells (or 0.8 Tables)
are required as evidence per sample, higher than both FEVER and Sem-Tab-Facts combined. Looking
into the evidence sets by type, we note that FEVEROUS is balanced, having almost an equal amount
of instances containing, either exclusively text, tables, or both as evidence. Regarding the veracity
labels, FEVEROUS is roughly balanced in terms of supported (56%) and refuted claims (39%), with
only about 5% of claims being NotEnoughInfo.

Table 1: Quantitative characteristics of FEVEROUS compared to related datasets. Claim length is
reported in tokens. Avg. Evidence is the average number of evidence pieces per claim in a dataset,
while Evidence Sets by type reports the number of unique evidence sets by type. For FEVEROUS,
combined measures the number of annotations that require evidence from both tables and sentences.
The Evidence Sets can be used as Evidence Source for SEM-TAB-FACTS and TabFact, as explored
by Schlichtkrull et al. [2020] for the latter.
          Statistic                 FEVEROUS                        FEVER             TabFact         SEM-TAB-FACTS
        Total Claims                   87,026                       185,445           117,854              5,715
      Avg. Claim Length                 25.3                          9.4               13.8                11.4
                               1.4 sentences, 3.3 cells           1.2 sentences        1 table            1.1 cells
       Avg. Evidence
                                     (0.8 tables)                                                         (1 table)
                           34,963 sentences, 28,760 tables,       296,712 sets      16,573 tables       1,085 tables
  Evidence Sets by Type
                                  24,667 combined
                                  95.6M sentences,            25.1M sentences,      16,573 tables       1,085 tables
 Size of Evidence Source
                                    11.8M tables
       Veracity Labels           49,115 Supported,            93,367 Supported,   63,723 Supported,   3,342 Supported,
                                  33,669 Refuted,              43,107 Refuted,     54,131 Refuted      2,149 Refuted,
                                     4,242 NEI                   48,973 NEI                            224 Unknown



3.1     Dataset Annotation

Each claim in the FEVEROUS dataset was constructed in two stages: 1) claim generation based on a
Wikipedia article, 2) retrieval of evidence from Wikipedia and selection of the appropriate verdict
label, i.e. claim verification. Each claim is verified by a different annotator than the one who generated
it to ensure the verification is done without knowledge of the label or the evidence. A dedicated
interface built on top of Wikipedia’s underlying software, Mediawiki (https://www.mediawiki.
org/wiki/MediaWiki) to give annotators a natural and intuitive environment for searching and
retrieving relevant information. The ElasticSearch engine, in particular the CirrusSearch Extension,
allowed for more advanced search expressions with well-defined operators and hyperlink navigation,
as well as a custom built page search functionality, enabling annotators to search for specific phrases
in an article. This interface allows for a diverse generation of claims, as annotators can easily combine
information from multiple sections or pages. See the supplementary material for screenshots of the
interface and examples of its use. We logged all of the annotators’ interactions with the platform
(e.g. search terms entered, hyperlinks clicked) and include them in the FEVEROUS dataset, as this
information could be used to refine retrieval models with additional information on intermediate
searches and search paths that led to relevant pages.


                                                              4
3.1.1   Claim Generation
To generate a claim, annotators were given a highlight of either four consecutive sentences or a
table, located anywhere in a Wikipedia page; each page is used only once, i.e. only one set of claims
is generated per page, to prevent the generation of claims that are too similar. This allowed us to
control the information that annotators used and consequently the distribution of topics in the claims.
Sentence highlights are restricted to sentences that have at least 5 tokens, whereas table highlights
must have at least 5 rows and at most 50 rows. These bounds have been chosen based on previous
work, with the rows upper bound being equal to TabFact’s and the lower bounds being equal to
HybridQA’s. While TabFact does not use lower bounds, we noticed that it is infeasible to construct
more complicated claims from tables with fewer than 5 rows.
The sentence versus table highlights ratio is 1:2. Annotators had the option to skip highlights if the
sentences/tables had formatting issues or if the content enable the creation of verifiable, unambiguous,
and objective claims (see supplementary material for the full list of requirements). For each highlight,
annotators were asked to write three different claims with the specifications described below, each
claim being a factual and well-formed sentence.
Claim using highlight only (Type I). This type of claim must use information exclusively from the
highlighted table/sentences and their context (page/section titles or headers). For sentence highlights
we did not allow claims to be paraphrases of one of the highlighted sentences, but to combine
information from the four highlighted sentences instead. For claims based on a table highlight,
annotators were asked to combine information from multiple cells if possible, using comparisons,
filters, arithmetic and min-max operations. Only for the first claim we also specified the veracity of
the generated claim, enforcing an equal balance between supported and refuted claims. This decision
was motivated by the observation that annotators have a strong tendency to write supported claims as
these are more natural to generate. For both Type II and III claims, annotators could freely decide to
create either supported, refuted, or NEI claims, as long as they adhere to the claim requirements.
Claim beyond the highlight (Type II). This type of claim must be based on the highlight, but must
also include information beyond it. Annotators could either modify the first claim they generated or
create an unrelated claim that still included information from the highlight. Furthermore, we enforced
with equal probability whether the claim had to use information exclusively from the same page or
from multiple pages. For the latter, annotators were allowed to navigate Wikipedia using the search
engine and page search tools previously described.
Mutated Claim (Type III). We asked annotators to modify one of the two claims previously generated
using one of the following ‘mutations’: More Specific, Generalization, Negation, Paraphrasing, or
Entity Substitution, with probabilities 0.15, 0.15, 0.3, 0.1, 0.3, respectively. These mutations are
similar, but less restrictive than those used in FEVER (see supplementary material). Annotators were
allowed to navigate Wikipedia freely to extract information for generating this claim.
For each generated claim, the annotators were also asked to specify the main challenge they expect
a fact-checker would face when verifying that claim, selecting one out of six challenge categories:
claims that require evidence from two or more sections or articles (Multi-hop Reasoning), combina-
tion of structured and unstructured evidence (Combining Tables and Text), reasoning that involves
numbers or arithmetic operations (Numerical Reasoning), disambiguation of entities in claims (Entity
Disambiguation), requiring search terms beyond entities mentioned in claim (Search terms not in
claim), and Other.

3.1.2   Claim Verification
Given a claim from the previous annotation step, annotators were asked to retrieve evidence and
determine whether a claim is supported or refuted by evidence found on Wikipedia. Each annotation
may contain up to three possibly partially overlapping evidence sets, and each set leads to the same
verdict independently. For supported claims, every piece of information has to be verified by evidence,
whereas for refuted claims, the evidence only needs to be sufficient to refute one part of the claim.
If the verification of a claim requires to include every entry in a table row/column (e.g. claims with
universal quantification such as “highest number of gold medals out of all countries”), each cell of
that row/column is highlighted. In some cases, a claim can be considered unverifiable (Not Enough
Information; NEI) if not enough information can be found on Wikipedia to arrive at one of the two
other verdicts. In contrast to FEVER dataset, we also require annotated evidence for NEI claims


                                                   5
capturing the most relevant information to verification of the claim, even if that was not possible. This
ensures that all verdict labels are equally difficult to predict correctly, as they all require evidence.
Starting from the Wikipedia search page, annotators were allowed to navigate freely through
Wikipedia to find relevant evidence. They were also shown the associated context of the selected
evidence in order to assess whether the evidence is sufficient on its own given the context or whether
additional evidence needs to be highlighted. Before submitting, annotators were shown a confirmation
screen with the highlighted evidence, the context, and the selected verdict, to ensure that all required
evidence has been highlighted and that they are confident in the label they have selected.
While we require information to be explicitly mentioned in the evidence in order to support a claim,
we noticed that requesting the same for refuting claims would lead to counter-intuitive verdict labels.
For example, “Shakira is Canadian” would be labelled as NEI when we consider the evidence
“Shakira is a Colombian singer, songwriter, dancer, and record producer” and no mention of Shakira
having a second nationality or any other relation to Canada. A NEI verdict in this case is rather forced
and unnatural, as there is no reason to believe that Shakira could be Canadian given the Wikipedia
article. To address these cases, we added a guideline question “Would you consider yourself misled
by the claim given the evidence you found?”, so that, if answered yes (as in the above example),
claims are labelled as Refuted, otherwise they are labelled NEI. This label rationale is different from
FEVER for which explicit evidence is required to refute a claim. While it could be argued that, our
approach to labelling claims leaves potentially more room for ambiguity as the decision partially
depends on what the annotator expects to find on a Wikipedia page and whether a claim adheres
to the Grice’s Maxim of Quantity (being as informative as possible, giving as much information
as needed), our quality assessment shows that verdict agreement is very high when the annotated
evidence is identical (see Section 3.2).
After finishing the verification of the given claim, annotators then had to specify the main challenge
for verifying it, using the same six challenge categories as for the challenge prediction in section 7.9.
Examples and quantitative characteristics on expected and actual challenges can be found in the
supplementary material.


3.2   Quality Control

Annotators: Annotators were hired through an external contractor. A total of 57 and 54 annotators
were employed for the claim generation and claim verification stages respectively.The annotations
were supervised by three project managers as well as the authors of this paper. For claim generation,
half of the annotators were native US-English speakers, while the other half were language-aware
(an upper education degree in a language-related subject). English speakers from the Philippines,
whereas the evidence annotators had to be language-aware native US-English speakers. The annotator
candidates were screened internally by the external contractor to assess their suitability for this
task. The screening followed a two-stage process. First, the candidates’ English proficiency was
assessed through grammatical, spelling, and fluency tests. Second, the candidates were asked to give
a sentence-long summary for a given paragraph that they would then be asked to mutate by means of
negation or entity substitution, similarly to Section 7.9. The same screening procedure was used for
both tasks, with the difference that the minimum score was set higher for the claim verification part.
Details on the annotator demographics can be found in the supplementary material.


Calibration: Due to the complexity of the annotation, we used a two-phase calibration procedure
for training and selecting annotators. For this purpose, highlights with generated claims annotated
with evidence and verdicts were created by the authors to cover a variety of scenarios. While the first
calibration phase aimed at familiarizing the annotators with the task, the second phase contained more
difficult examples and special cases. Annotators had to annotate a total of ten highlights/claims in each
calibration phase. Annotations for claim generation were graded by the project managers in a binary
fashion, i.e. whether a claim adheres to the guideline requirements or not and whether the expected
challenge is appropriate. For claim verification they were graded using the gold annotations by the
authors using label accuracy, evidence precision/recall (see Section 5.1), the number of complete
evidence sets, and selected verification challenge. Before continuing with the second calibration
phase, annotators had to review the scores and feedback they received in the first phase. Based on the
scores in both phases, the project managers approved or rejected each annotator, with an approval


                                                   6
rate of 40% for claim generation and 54% for claim verification, with a total of 141 and 100 claim
generation and verification candidates, respectively.

Quality Assurance: Generated claims were quality checked by claim verification annotators who
had to report those that did not adhere to the claim requirements, specifying the reason(s). 2534 claims
were reported with the most common reason being Ungrammatical, spelling mistakes, typographical
errors, followed by Cannot be verified using any publicly available information.
Around 10% of the claim verification annotations (8474 samples) were used for quality assurance.
We measured two-way IAA using 66% of these samples, and three-way agreement with the remaining
33%. The samples were selected randomly proportionally to the number of annotations by each
annotator. The κ over the verdict label was 0.65 both for two-way and three-way agreement. Duplicate
annotations (and hence disagreements) due to measuring IAA are not considered for the dataset
itself. These IAA scores are slightly lower than the ones reported for FEVER dataset (0.68), however
the complexity of FEVEROUS is greater as entire Wikipedia pages with both text and tables are
considered as evidence instead of only sentences from the introductory sections. TabFact has an
agreement of 0.75, yet in TabFact the (correct) evidence is given to the annotators. If we only look at
claims where annotators chose identical evidence, verdict agreement in FEVEROUS is very high
(0.92), showing that most disagreement is caused by the evidence annotation. Pairs of annotators
annotated the same evidence for 42% of the claims and partially overlapping evidence of at least 70%
for 74% of them. In 27% of the claims the evidence of one annotator is a proper subsets of another,
indicating that in some cases evidence might provide more information than required, e.g. identical
information that should have been assigned to two different evidence set.
Further analysing the cases of disagreement, we observe that in a third of two-way IAA disagreement
cases one annotator selected NEI, which is disproportionately high considering NEI claims make
up only 5% of the dataset, again indicating that the retrieval of evidence is a crucial part of the
verification task. For the other two-thirds, when annotators selected opposite veracity labels we
identified four sources of disagreement: (i) numerical claims that require counting a large number of
cells, so small counting errors lead to opposing labels (ii) long claims with a refutable detail that had
been overlooked and hence classified erroneously (iii) not finding evidence that refutes/supports a
claim due to relevant pages being difficult to find (e.g. when the article’s title does not appear in the
claim) (iv) accidental errors/noise, likely caused by the complexity of the task. Looking into the IAA
between every annotator pair shows an overall consistent annotation quality with a standard deviation
of 0.07 and a total of 10 annotators with an average IAA of below 0.60, and 8 being higher than 0.70.

Dataset Artifacts & Biases: To counteract possible dataset artifacts, we measured the association
between several variables, using normalized PMI throughout the annotation process. We found that
no strong co-occurrence was measured between the verdict and the words in the claim, indicating
that no claim-only bias [Schuster et al., 2019] is present in the dataset. We observed the following
correlations: an evidence table/sentence being the first element on a page with supported verdict
(nPMI=0.14) and after position 20 with NEI verdict (nPMI=0.09); words ’which/who’ with Claim
Type II as well as mutation type More specific and Entity Substitution (nPMI=0.07); Claim Type II
with supported verdict (nPMI=0.17) and Claim Type III with refuted label (nPMI=0.23). The latter
can most likely be attributed to the Negation and Entity substitution mutations. Since we do not
release the claim-type correspondence, the association of words with claim types and mutations is
not of concern.
We also developed a claim-only baseline, which uses the claim as input and predicts the verdict
label. We opted to fine-tune a pre-trained BERT model [Devlin et al., 2019] with a linear layer on
top and measured its accuracy using 5-fold cross-validation. This claim-only baseline achieves 0.58
label accuracy, compared to the majority baseline being 0.56. Compared to FEVER where a similar
claim-only baseline achieves a score of about 0.62 over a majority baseline of 0.33 [Schuster et al.,
2019], the artefacts in FEVEROUS appear to be minimal in this respect. Regarding the position of
the evidence, we observed that cell evidence tends to be located in the first half of a table. For smaller
tables, evidence is more evenly distributed across rows. Moreover, a substantial amount of claims
require using entire columns as evidence, and thus the later parts of a table as well.
Finally, we trained a claim-only evidence type model to predict whether a claim requires as evidence
sentences, cells, or a combination of both evidence types. The model and experimental setup were
identical to the one used to assess claim-only bias. The model achieved 0.62 accuracy, compared to


                                                    7
0.43 using the majority baseline, suggesting that the claims are to some extent indicative of the type,
but a strong system would need to look at the evidence as well.


4     Baseline Model

Retriever Our baseline retriever module is a combination of entity matching and TF-IDF using
DrQA [Chen et al., 2017]. Combining both has previously been shown to work well, particularly for
retrieving tables [Schlichtkrull et al., 2020]. We first extract the top k pages by matching extracted
entities from the claim with Wikipedia articles. If less than k pages have been identified this way, the
remaining pages are selected by Tf-IDF matching between the introductory sentence of an article
and the claim. The top l sentences and q tables of the selected pages are then scored separately using
TF-IDF. We set k = 5, l = 5 and q = 3.
For each of the q retrieved tables, we retrieve the most relevant cells by linearizing the table and
treating the retrieval of cells as a binary sequence labelling task. The underlying model is a fine-tuned
RoBERTa model with the claim concatenated with the respective table as input. When fine-tuning,
we deploy row sampling, similar to Oguz et al. [2020], to ensure that the tables used during training
fit into the input of the model.

Verdict prediction Given the retrieved evidence, we predict the verdict label using a RoBERTa
encoder with a linear layer on top. Table cells are linearized to be used as a evidence, following
Schlichtkrull et al. [2020] who showed that a RoBERTa based model with the right linearization
performs better than models taking table structure into account. Linearization of a table’s content
enables cross-attention between cells and sentences by simply concatenating all evidence in the input
of the model. For each piece of evidence, we concatenate its context ensuring that the page title
appears only once, at the beginning of the evidence retrieved from it.
The verdict predictor is trained on labelled claims with associated cell and sentence evidence and
their context. The FEVEROUS dataset is rather imbalanced regarding NEI labels (5% of claims), so
we sample additional NEI instances for training by modifying annotations that contain both cell and
sentence evidence by removing either a sentence or an entire table. We additionally explore the use
of a RoBERTa model that has been pre-trained on various NLI datasets (SNLI [Bowman et al., 2015],
MNLI [Williams et al., 2018], and an NLI-version of FEVER, proposed by Nie et al. [2020]).


5     Experiments

5.1   Dataset splits and evaluation

The dataset is split into a training, development and test split in a ratio of about 0.8, 0.1, 0.1. We
further ensured that all three claims generated from a highlight are assigned to the same split to
prevent claims in the development and test splits from being too similar to the ones in training
data. Quantitative characteristics are shown in Table 2. Due to the scarcity of NEI instances, we
maintained a rough label balance only for the test set. In all splits, the number of evidence sets with
only sentences as evidence is slightly higher than sets that contain only cell evidence or sets that
require a combination of different evidence types.


                  Table 2: Quantitative characteristics of each split in FEVEROUS.
                                 Train             Dev             Test         Total
         Supported            41,835 (59%)     3,908 (50%)      3,372 (43%)     49,115 (56%)
         Refuted              27,215 (38%)     3,481 (44%)      2,973 (38%)     33,669 (39%)
         NEI                   2,241 (3%)       501 (6%)        1,500 (19%)      4,242 (5%)
         Total                   71,291            7,890           7,845            87,026
         ESentences           31,607 (41%)     3,745 (43%)      3589 (42%)      38,941 (41%)
         ECells               25,020 (32%)     2,738 (32%)      2816 (33%)      30,574 (32%)
         ESentence+Cells      20,865 (27%)     2,468 (25%)      2062 (24%)      25,395 (27%)


                                                   8
