                                                           Claim: Braeden Lemasters, an American actor,
                                                         musician, and voice actor, appeared in six films since
                                                         2008 and also appeared in TV shows such as Six Feet
     Claim: Mike Ledwith (a professional baseball
                                                              Under where he starred as Frankie.
  player) played one game in MLB and scored one run.
                                                                              Evidence
                      Evidence
                                                                    P: wiki/Braeden_Lemasters
               P: wiki/Mike Ledwith
                                                                          S2: Filmography
                 S0: Introduction
                                                         e1 : Braeden Lemasters (born January 27, 1996) is an
   e1 : Michael Ledwith, was a professional baseball
                                                               American actor, musician, and voice actor.
  player who played catcher in one game for the 1874
                                                                                  e2 :
                  Brooklyn Atlantics.
                 S0: Introduction                            Year                  Film               Role
                      Mike Ledwith                         2008           Beautiful Loser                Jake
                                                           2009            The Stepfather      Sean Harding
                      MLB statistics
                                                           2010                   Easy A 8th Grade Todd
           e2 :    Games played         1                  2012     A Christmas Story 2      Ralphie Parker
                     Runs scored        1                  2017                    Totem                Todd
                             Hits       1                  2017             Flock of Four       Joey Grover
                  Batting average   0.250                               S1: Life and career
                                                          e3 : In 2005, Braeden started his career at age 9, as
                Verdict: Supported
                                                                Frankie, on the TV show Six Feet Under.
   Expected Challenge: Combining Tables and Text
       Challenge: Combining Tables and Text
                                                                       Verdict: Supported
                                                          Expected Challenge: Combining Tables and Text
                                                              Challenge: Combining Tables and Text

Figure 13: Two examples from the FEVEROUS dataset that require both unstructured and structured
information. The dataset contains both short, simple claims (left) and complex claims (right).


statistics such as the number of claims an annotator generated that have been reported by verification
annotators, to identify error patterns and giving annotators further individual feedback. An interface
was provided to annotators to see the annotations that have been quality checked and to allow them to
maintain an overview on their performance.
Figure 14 shows the QA interface for project managers. QA annotations with only partial agreement
or complete disagreement are highlighted in the interface in red. The QA interface for annotators
looks similar, with ID’s being anonymized.

7.11   Author statement

The authors of this paper bear all responsibility in case of violation of copyrights associated with the
FEVEROUS dataset.




                                                  31
Figure 14: QA annotation interface for project managers. Interface for annotators looks similar, with
ID’s being anonymized




                                                 32
