                                              Fake News Detection on Social Media using
                                                     Geometric Deep Learning


                                         Federico Monti1,2      Fabrizio Frasca1,2       Davide Eynard1,2        Damon Mannion1,2

                                                                        Michael M. Bronstein1,2,3




arXiv:1902.06673v1 [cs.SI] 10 Feb 2019
                                                       1                       2                     3
                                                         Fabula AI              USI Lugano           Imperial College
                                                     United Kingdom             Switzerland          United Kingdom



                                                                                   Abstract




                                             Social media are nowadays one of the main news sources for millions of people
                                             around the globe due to their low cost, easy access, and rapid dissemination.
                                             This however comes at the cost of dubious trustworthiness and significant risk of
                                             exposure to ‘fake news’, intentionally written to mislead the readers. Automatically
                                             detecting fake news poses challenges that defy existing content-based analysis
                                             approaches. One of the main reasons is that often the interpretation of the news
                                             requires the knowledge of political or social context or ‘common sense’, which
                                             current natural language processing algorithms are still missing. Recent studies
                                             have empirically shown that fake and real news spread differently on social media,
                                             forming propagation patterns that could be harnessed for the automatic fake news
                                             detection. Propagation-based approaches have multiple advantages compared to
                                             their content-based counterparts, among which is language independence and
                                             better resilience to adversarial attacks. In this paper, we show a novel automatic
                                             fake news detection model based on geometric deep learning. The underlying
                                             core algorithms are a generalization of classical convolutional neural networks to
                                             graphs, allowing the fusion of heterogeneous data such as content, user profile and
                                             activity, social graph, and news propagation. Our model was trained and tested
                                             on news stories, verified by professional fact-checking organizations, that were
                                             spread on Twitter. Our experiments indicate that social network structure and
                                             propagation are important features allowing highly accurate (92.7% ROC AUC)
                                             fake news detection. Second, we observe that fake news can be reliably detected at
                                             an early stage, after just a few hours of propagation. Third, we test the aging of
                                             our model on training and testing data separated in time. Our results point to the
                                             promise of propagation-based approaches for fake news detection as an alternative
                                             or complementary strategy to content-based approaches.
1    Introduction

In the past decade, social media have become one of the main sources of information for people
around the world. Yet, using social media for news consumption is a double-edged sword. On the one
hand, it offers low cost, easy access, and rapid dissemination. On the other hand, it comes with the
danger of exposure to ‘fake news’ containing poorly checked or even intentionally false information
aimed at misleading and manipulating the readers to pursue certain political or economic agendas.
The extensive spread of fake news has recently become a global problem and threat to modern
democracies. The extensive spread of fake news before the United States 2016 presidential elections
[3] and the Brexit vote in United Kingdom has become the centerpiece of the controversy surrounding
these political events and allegations of public opinion manipulation. Due the very high societal and
economic cost of the phenomenon [11], in the past year, fake news detection in social media has
attracted enormous attention in the academic and industrial realms [16].
Automatically detecting fake news poses challenges that defy existing content-based analysis ap-
proaches. One of the main reasons is that often the interpretation of the news is highly nuanced and
requires the knowledge of political or social context, or “common sense”, which even the currently
most advanced natural language processing algorithms are still missing. Furthermore, fake news is
often intentionally written by bad actors to appear as real news but containing false or manipulative
information in ways that are hard even for trained human experts to detect.

Prior works. Existing approaches for fake news detection can be divided into three main categories,
based on content, social context, and propagation [36, 44]. Content-based approaches, which are
used in the majority of works on fake news detection, rely on linguistic (lexical and syntactical)
features that can capture deceptive cues or writing styles [1, 32, 30, 29, 28]. The main drawback
of content-based approaches is that they can be defied by sufficiently sophisticated fake news that
does not immediately appear as fake. Furthermore, most linguistic features are language-dependent,
limiting the generality of these approaches.
Social context features include user demographics (such as age, gender, education, and political
affiliation [37, 21]), social network structure [38, 35] (in the form of connections between users such
as friendship or follower/followee relations) and user reactions (e.g. posts accompanying a news item
[33] or likes [40]).
Propagation-based approaches are perhaps the most intriguing and promising research direction
based on studying the news proliferation process over time. It has been argued that the fake news
dissemination process is akin to infectious disease spread [14] and can be understood with network
epidemics models. There is substantial empirical evidence that fake news propagate differently from
true news [42] forming spreading patterns that could potentially be exploited for automatic fake news
detection. By virtue of being content-agnostic, propagation-based features are likely generalizes
across different languages, locales, and geographies, as opposed to content-based features that must
be developed separately for each language. Furthermore, controlling the news spread patterns in a
social network is generally beyond the capability of individual users, implying that propagation-based
features would potentially be very hard to tamper with by adversarial attacks.

Main contribution. So far, attempts to exploit news propagation for fake news detection applied
‘handcrafted’ graph-theoretical features such as centrality, cliques, or connected components [15].
These features are rather arbitrary, too general, and not necessarily meaningful for the specific task
of fake news detection. In this paper, we propose learning fake news specific propagation patterns
by exploiting geometric deep learning, a novel class of deep learning methods designed to work on
graph-structured data [4]. Geometric deep learning naturally deals with heterogeneous data (such
as user demographic and activity, social network structure, news propagation and content), thus
carrying the potential of being a unifying framework for content, social context, and propagation
based approaches.
The model proposed in this paper is trained in a supervised manner on a large set of annotated fake
and true stories spread on Twitter in the period 2013-2018. We perform extensive testing of our
model in different challenging settings, showing that it achieves very high accuracy (nearly 93% ROC
AUC), requires very short news spread times (just a few hours of propagation), and performs well
when the model is trained on data distant in time from the testing data.


                                                  2
Figure 1: Example of a single news story spreading on a subset of the Twitter social network. Social
connections between users are visualized as light-blue edges. A news URL is tweeted by multiple
users (cascade roots denotes in red), each producing a cascade propagating over a subset of the social
graph (red edges). Circle size represents the number of followers. Note that some cascades are small,
containing only the root (the tweeting user) or just a few retweets.


2       Dataset
One of the key challenges in machine-learning based approaches in general, and in automatic fake
news detection in particular, is collecting a sufficiently large, rich, and reliably labelled dataset on
which the algorithms can be trained and tested. Furthermore, the notion of ‘fake news’ itself is
rather vague and nuanced. To start with, there is no consensus as to what would be considered
‘news’, let alone the label ‘true’ or ‘false’. A large number of studies exploit the notion of reliable
or unreliable sources as a proxy for true or false stories. While allowing to gather large datasets,
such approaches have been criticized as too crude [42]. In our study, we opted for a data collection
process in which each ‘story’ has an underlying article published on the web, and each such story is
verified individually. In our classification of true or false statements we rely on professional non-profit
journalist fact-checking organizations such as Snopes,1 PolitiFact,2 and Buzzfeed.3 We note that our
use of the term fake news, though disliked in the social science research community for its abuse in
the political discourse, refers to both misinformation and disinformation, i.e. unintentional as well as
deliberate spread of misleading or wrong narrative or facts.

Data collection protocol. Our data collection process was inspired by and largely followed the
pioneering work of Vosoughi et al. [42]. We used a collection of news verified by fact-checking
organizations with established reputation in debunking rumors; each source fact-checking organization
provides an archive of news with an associated short claim (e.g. ‘Actress Allison Mack confessed
that she sold children to the Rothschilds and Clintons’) and a label determining its veracity (‘false’ in
the above example). First, we gathered the overall list of fact-checking articles from such archives
and, for simplicity, discarded claims with ambiguous labels, such as ‘mixed’ or ‘partially true/false’.
Second, for each of the filtered articles we identified potentially related URLs referenced by the
fact-checkers, filtering out all those not mentioned at least once on Twitter. Third, trained human
annotators were employed to ascertain whether the web pages associated with the collected URLs
were matching or denying the claim, or were simply unrelated to that claim. This provided a simple
method to propagate truth-labels from fact-checking verdicts to URLs: if a URL matches a claim,
    1
      https://www.snopes.com/
    2
      https://www.politifact.com/
    3
      https://www.buzzfeed.com/


                                                    3
                         105




 Number of cascades
                         104
                         103
                         102
                         101
                         100
                               0   500     1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 5,000 5,500 6,000
                                                                Cascade size


                          Figure 2: Distribution of cascade sizes (number of tweets per cascade) in our dataset.




 Fraction of cascades
                        10−2



                        10−3



                        10−4
                               0     100       200      300       400       500      600      700       800        900
                                                                        URL ID
Figure 3: Distribution of cascades over the 930 URLs available in our dataset with at least six tweets
per cascade, sorted by the number cascades in descending order. The first 15 URLs (~1.5% of the
entire dataset) correspond to 20% of all the cascades.


then it directly inherits the verdict; if it denies a claim, it inherits the opposite of the verdict (e.g.
URLs matching a true claim are labeled as true, URLs denying a true claim are labeled as false).
URLs gathered from different sources, with same veracity and date of first-appearance on Twitter
were additionally inspected to ensure they referred to different articles.
The last part of the data collection process consisted of the retrieval of Twitter data related to the
propagation of news associated with a particular URL. Following the nomenclature of [42], we term
as cascade the news diffusion tree produced by a source tweet referencing a URL and all of its
retweets. For each URL, we searched for all the related cascades and enriched their Twitter-based
characterization (i.e. users and tweet data) by drawing edges among users according to Twitter’s
social network (see example in Figure 1).
With regard to this last step of data collection, our approach is significantly different from the protocol
of [42], where tweets linking to a fact-checking website were collected, thus essentially retrieving
only cascades in which someone has posted a ‘proof-link’ with the veracity of the news. Though
significantly more laborious, we believe that our data collection protocol produces a much cleaner
dataset.

Statistics. Figures 2–3 depict the statistics of our dataset. Overall, our collection consisted of
1, 084 labeled claims, spread on Twitter in 158, 951 cascades covering the period from May 2013
till January 2018. The total number of unique users involved in the spreading was 202, 375 and
their respective social graph comprised 2, 443, 996 edges. As we gathered 1, 129 URLs, the average
number of article URLs per claim is around 1.04; as such, a URL can be considered as a good proxy
for a claim in our dataset and we will thus use the two terms synonymously hereinafter. We also
note that, similarly to [42], a large proportion of cascades were of small size (the average number of


                                                                    4
Figure 4: Subset of the Twitter network used in our study with estimated user credibility. Vertices
represent users, gray edges the social connections. Vertex color and size encode the user credibility
(blue = reliable, red = unreliable) and number of followers of each user, respectively. Numbers 1 to 9
represent the nine users with most followers.


tweets and users in a cascade is 2.79, see also Figure 2 depicting the distribution of cascade sizes),
which required to use a threshold on a minimum cascade size for classifying these independently in
some experiments (see details in Section 4.1).



Features. We extracted the following features describing news, users, and their activity, grouped
into four categories: User profile (geolocalization and profile settings, language, word embedding of
user profile self-description, date of account creation, and whether it has been verified), User activity
(number of favorites, lists, and statuses), Network and spreading (social connections between the
users, number of followers and friends, cascade spreading tree, retweet timestamps and source device,
number of replies, quotes, favorites and retweets for the source tweet), and Content (word embedding
of the tweet textual content and included hashtags).



Credibility and polarization. The social network collected in our study manifests noticeable
polarization depicted in Figure 4. Each user in this plot is assigned a credibility score in the
range [−1, +1] computed as the difference between the proportion of (re)tweeted true and fake
news (negative values representing fake are depicted in red; more credible users are represented
in blue). The node positions of the graph are determined by topological embedding computed via
the Fruchterman-Reingold force-directed algorithm [9], grouping together nodes of the graph that
are more strongly connected and mapping apart nodes that have weak connections. We observe
that credible (blue) and non-credible (red) users tend to form two distinct communities, suggesting
these two categories of tweeters prefer to have mostly homophilic interactions. While a deeper study
of this phenomenon is beyond the scope of this paper, we note that similar polarization has been
observed before in social networks, e.g. in the context of political discourse [7] and might be related
to ‘echo chamber’ theories that attempt to explain the reasons for the difference in fake and true news
propagation patterns.


                                                   5
Figure 5: The architecture of our neural network model. Top row: GC = Graph Convolution, MP
= Mean Pooling, FC = Fully Connected, SM = SoftMax layer. Bottom row: input/output tensors
received/produced by each layer.



3     Our model

3.1   Geometric deep learning

In the past decade, deep learning techniques have had a remarkable impact on multiple domains, in
particular computer vision, speech analysis, and natural language processing [17]. However, most
of popular deep neural models, such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs) [18], are based on
classical signal processing theory, with an underlying assumption of grid-structured (Euclidean)
data. In recent years, there has been growing interest in generalizing deep learning techniques to
non-Euclidean (graph- and manifold-structured) data. Early approaches to learning on graphs [34]
predate the recent deep learning renaissance and are formulated as fixed points of learnable diffusion
operators. The modern interest in deep learning on graphs can be attributed to the spectral CNN
model of Bruna et al. [5]. Since some of the first works in this domain originated in graphics and
geometry community [22], the term geometric deep learning is widely used as an umbrella term for
non-Euclidean deep learning approaches [4].
Broadly speaking, graph CNNs replace the classical convolution operation on grids with a local
permutation-invariant aggregation on the neighborhood of a vertex in a graph. In spectral graph CNNs
[5], this operation is performed in the spectral domain, by utilizing the analogy between the graph
Laplacian eigenvectors and the classical Fourier transform; the filters are represented as learnable
spectral coefficients. While conceptually important, spectral CNNs suffer from high computational
complexity and difficulty to generalize across different domains [4]. Follow-up works showed that
the explicit eigendecomposition of the Laplacian can be avoided altogether by employing functions
expressible in terms of simple matrix-vector operations, such as polynomials [8, 12] or rational
functions [19]. Such spectral filters typically scale linearly with the graph size and can be generalized
to higher order structures [25], dual graphs (edge filters) [26], and product graphs [24].
The Laplacian operator is only one example of fixed local permutation-invariant aggregation oper-
ation amounting to weighted averaging. More general operators have been proposed using edge
convolutions [43], neural message passing [10], local charting [23], and graph attention [41]. On
non-Euclidean domains with local low-dimensional structure (manifolds, meshes, point clouds), more
powerful operators have been constructed using e.g. anisotropic diffusion kernels [2].
Being very abstract models of systems of relations and interactions, graphs naturally arise in various
fields of science. For this reason, geometric deep learning techniques have been successfully applied
across the board in problems such as computer graphics and vision [2, 23, 20, 43], protection against
adversarial attacks [39], recommendation systems [24] quantum chemistry [10] and neutrino detection
[6], to mention a few.


                                                   6
3.2       Architecture and training settings

Our deep learning model is described below. We used a four-layer Graph CNN with two convolutional
layers (64-dimensional output features map in each) and two fully connected layers (producing 32-
and 2-dimensional output features, respectively) to predict the fake/true class probabilities. Figure
5 depicts a block diagram of our model. One head of graph attention [41] was used in every
convolutional layer to implement the filters together with mean-pooling for dimensionality reduction.
We used Scaled Exponential Linear Unit (SELU) [13] as non-linearity throughout the entire network.
Hinge loss was employed to train the neural network (we preferred hinge loss to the more commonly
used mean cross entropy as it outperformed the latter in early experiments). No regularization was
used with our model.

3.3       Input generation

Given a URL u (or a cascade c arising from u) with corresponding tweets Tu = {t1u , t2u , ..., tN    u }
mentioning it, we describe u in terms of graph Gu . Gu has tweets in Tu as nodes and estimated
news diffusion paths plus social relations as edges. In other words, given two nodes i and j, edge
(i, j) ∈ Gu iff at least one of the following holds: i follows j (i.e. the author of tweet i follows the
author of tweet j), j follows i, news spreading occurs from i to j, or from j to i.
News diffusion paths defining spreading trees were estimated as in [42] by jointly considering the
timestamps of involved (re)tweets and the social connections between their authors. Given tnu – the
retweet of a cascade related to URL u, and {t0u . . . tn−1
                                                       u   } – the immediately preceding (re)tweets
belonging to the same cascade and authored by users {a0u , . . . , anu }, then:
           1. if anu follows at least one user in {a0u , . . . , an−1
                                                                  u   }, we estimate news spreading to tnu from
              the very last tweet in {tu . . . tu } whose author is followed by anu ;
                                        0       n−1

           2. if anu does not follow any of the users in {a0u , . . . , an−1
                                                                         u   }, we conservatively estimate news
              spreading to tnu from the user in {a0u , . . . , an−1
                                                                u   } having the largest number of followers (i.e.
              the most popular one).
Finally, nodes and edges of graph Gu have features describing them. Nodes, representing tweets and
their authors, were characterized with all the features presented in Section 24 . As for edges, we used
features representing the membership to each of the aforementioned four relations (following and
news spreading, both directions). Our approach to defining graph connectivity and edge features
allows, in graph convolution, to spread information independently of the relation direction while
potentially giving different importance to the types of connections. Features of edge (i, j) are
concatenated to those of nodes i and j in the attention projection layer to achieve such behavior.

4         Results
We considered two different settings of fake news detection: URL-wise and cascade-wise, using the
same architecture for both settings. In the first setting, we attempted to predict the true/fake label of
a URL containing a news story from all the Twitter cascades it generated. On average, each URL
resulted in approximately 141 cascades. In the latter setting, which is significantly more challenging,
we assumed to be given only one cascade arising from a URL and attempted to predict the label
associated with that URL. Our assumption is that all the cascades associated with a URL inherit the
label of the latter. While we checked this assumption to be true in most cases in our dataset, it is
possible that an article is for example tweeted with a comment denying its content. We leave the
analysis of comments accompanying tweets/retweets as a future research direction.

4.1       Model performance

For URL-wise classification, we used five randomized training/test/validation splits. On average, the
training, test, and validation sets contained 677, 226, and 226 URLs, respectively, with 83.26% true
and 16.74% false labels (± 0.06% and 0.15% for training and validation/test set respectively). For
cascade-wise classification we used the same split initially realized for URL-wise classification (i.e.
      4
    For tweet content and user description embeddings we averaged together the embeddings of the constituent
words (GloVe[27] 200-dimensional vectors pre-trained on Twitter).


                                                          7
                      1

                     0.8




True Positive Rate
                     0.6

                     0.4

                     0.2

                      0
                           0   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4      0.5      0.6   0.7      0.8      0.9       1
                                                  False Positive Rate

Figure 6: Performance of URL-wise (blue) and cascade-wise (red) fake news detection using 24hr-
long diffusion time. Shown are ROC curves averaged on five folds (the shaded areas represent the
standard deviations). ROC AUC is 92.70 ± 1.80% for URL-wise classification and 88.30 ± 2.74%
for cascade-wise classification, respectively. Only cascades with at least 6 tweets were considered for
cascade-wise classification.




all cascades originated by URL u are placed in the same fold as u). Cascades containing less than 6
tweets were discarded; the reason for the choice of this threshold is motivated below. Full cascade
duration (24 hr) was used for both settings of this experiment. The training, test, and validation sets
contained on average 3586, 1195, 1195 cascades, respectively, with 81.73% true and 18.27% false
labels (± 3.25% and 6.50% for training and validation/test set respectively).
Our neural network was trained for 25 × 103 and 50 × 103 iterations in the URL- and cascade-wise
settings, respectively, using AMSGrad [31] with learning rate of 5 × 10−4 and mini-batch of size one.
Figure 6 depicts the performance of URL- (blue) and cascade-wise (red) fake news classification
represented as a tradeoff (ROC curve) between false positive rate (fraction of true news wrongly
classified as fake) and true positive rate (fraction of fake news correctly classified as fake). We
use area under the ROC curve (ROC AUC) as an aggregate measure of accuracy. On the above
splits, our method achieved mean ROC AUC of 92.70 ± 1.80% and 88.30 ± 2.74% in the URL- and
cascade-wise settings, respectively.
Figure 7 depicts a low-dimensional plot of the last graph convolutional layer vertex-wise features
obtained using t-SNE embedding. The vertices are colored using the credibility score defined in
Section 2. We observe clear clusters of reliable (blue) and unreliable (red) users, which is indicative
of the neural network learning features that are useful for fake news classification.
Influence of minimum cascade size. One of the characteristics of our dataset (as well as the dataset
in the study of [42]) is the abundance of small cascades containing just a few users (see Figure 2).
Since our approach relies on the spreading of news across the Twitter social network, such examples
may be hard to classify, as too small cascades may manifest no clear diffusion pattern. To identify
the minimum useful cascade size, we investigated the performance of our model in the cascade-wise
classification setting using cascades of various minimum sizes (Figure 8). As expected, the model
performance increases with larger cascades, reaching saturation for cascades of at least 6 tweets
(leaving a total of 5,976 samples). This experiment motivates our choice of using 6 tweets as the
minimum cascade size in cascade-wise experiments in our study.
Ablation study. To further highlight the importance of the different categories of features provided
as input to the model, we conducted an ablation study by means of backward-feature selection. We
considered four groups of features defined in Section 2: user profile, user activity, network and
spreading, and content. The results of ablation experiment are shown in Figure 9 for the URL- (top)
and cascade-wise (bottom) settings. In both settings, user-profile and network/spreading appear as
the two most important feature groups, and allow achieving satisfactory classification results (near
90% ROC AUC) with the proposed model.


                                                      8
Figure 7: T-SNE embedding of the vertex-wise features produced by our neural network at the last
convolutional layer representing all the users in our study, color-coded according to their credibility
(blue = reliable, red = unreliable). Clusters of users with different credibility clearly emerge, indicative
that the neural network learns features useful for fake news detection.



                0.86



 Mean ROC AUC
                0.84


                0.82


                       3   4           5           6           7             8           9           10
                                            Min. cascade size threshold
Figure 8: Performance of cascade-wise fake news detection (mean ROC AUC, averaged on five
folds) using minimum cascade size threshold. Best performance is obtained by filtering out cascades
smaller than 6 tweets.


Interestingly, in the cascade-wise setting, while all features were positively contributing to the final
predictions at URL-level, removing tweet content from the provided input improves performance by
4%. This seemingly contradictory result can be explained by looking at the distribution of cascades
over all the available URLs (Figure 3): 20% of cascades are associated to the top 15 largest URLs in
our dataset (∼ 1.5% out of a total of 930). Since tweets citing the same URL typically present similar
content, it is easy for the model to overfit on this particular feature. Proper regularization (e.g. dropout
or weight decay) should thus be introduced to avoid overfitting and improve performance at test time.
We leave this further study for future research. For simplicity, by leveraging the capabilities of our
model to classify fake news in a content-free scenario, we decided to completely ignore content-based
descriptors (tweet word embeddings) for cascade-wise classification and let the model exploit only
user- and propagation-related features.


                                                     9
          0.95




ROC AUC
           0.9


          0.85


                 user profile       user profile                user profile                 user profile
                                 network/spreading           network/spreading            network/spreading
                                                                  content                      content
                                                                                             user activity


           0.9



ROC AUC
          0.88

          0.86

          0.84

          0.82
                 user profile       user profile                user profile                 user profile
                                 network/spreading           network/spreading            network/spreading
                                                                user activity                user activity
                                                                                               content


Figure 9: Ablation study result on URL-wise (top) / cascade-wise (bottom) fake news detection, using
backward feature selection. Shown is performance (ROC AUC) for our model trained on subsets of
features, grouped into four categories: user profile, network and spreading, content, and user activity.
Groups are sorted for importance from left to right.


4.2        News spreading over time

One of the key differentiators of propagation-based methods from their content-based counterparts,
namely relying on the news spreading features, potentially raises the following question: for how
much time do the news have to spread before we can classify them reliably? We conducted a series
of experiments to study the extent to which this is the case with our approach.
For this purpose, we truncated the cascades after time t starting from the first tweet, with t varying
from 0 (effectively considering only the initial tweet, i.e. the ‘root’ of each cascade) to 24 hours (the
full cascade duration) with one hour increments. The model was trained separately for each value
of t. Five-fold cross validation was used to reduce the bias of the estimations while containing the
overall computational cost.
Figure 10 depicts the performance of the model (mean ROC AUC) as function of the cascade duration,
for the URL- (top) and cascade-wise (bottom) settings. As expected, performance increases with
the cascade duration, saturating roughly after 15 hours in the URL-wise setting and after 7 hours in
the cascade-wise one, respectively. This different behavior is mainly due to the simpler topological
patterns and shorter life of individual cascades. Seven hours of spreading encompass on average
around 91% of the cascade size; for the URL-wise setting, the corresponding value is 68%. A similar
level of coverage, 86%, is achieved after 15 hours of spreading in the URL-wise setting.
We also note that remarkably just a few (∼ 2) hours of news spread are sufficient to achieve above
90% mean ROC AUC in URL-wise fake news classification. Furthermore, we observe a significant
jump in performance from the 0 hr setting (effectively using only user profile, user activity, and


                                                   10
