                                            climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World
                                                                Climate Claims
                                                                            Preprint, compiled January 5, 2021

                                                Thomas Diggelmann                      Jordan Boyd-Graber                   Jannis Bulian
                                               Department of Physics              CS, iSchool, LSC, and UMIACS             Google Research
                                                    ETH Zurich                         University of Maryland             Zurich, Switzerland
                                                 Zurich, Switzerland                  College Park, MD, USA              jbulian@google.com
                                            thomasdi@student.ethz.ch                  jbg@umiacs.umd.edu




arXiv:2012.00614v2 [cs.CL] 2 Jan 2021
                                                      Massimiliano Ciaramita                            Markus Leippold
                                                         Google Research                         Department of Banking and Finance
                                                        Zurich, Switzerland                             University of Zurich
                                                       massi@google.com                                 Zurich, Switzerland
                                                                                                  markus.leippold@bf.uzh.ch

                                                                                        Abstract

                                                 We introduce climate-fever, a new publicly available dataset for verification of climate
                                                 change-related claims. By providing a dataset for the research community, we aim to
                                                 facilitate and encourage work on improving algorithms for retrieving evidential support
                                                 for climate-specific claims, addressing the underlying language understanding challenges,
                                                 and ultimately help alleviate the impact of misinformation on climate change. We adapt
                                                 the methodology of fever [1], the largest dataset of artificially designed claims, to real-
                                                 life claims collected from the Internet. While during this process, we could rely on the
                                                 expertise of renowned climate scientists, it turned out to be no easy task. We discuss
                                                 the surprising, subtle complexity of modeling real-world climate-related claims within
                                                 the fever framework, which we believe provides a valuable challenge for general natural
                                                 language understanding. We hope that our work will mark the beginning of a new exciting
                                                 long-term joint effort by the climate science and ai community.


                                        1    Introduction

                                        With the easy availability of information through the Internet and social media, claims of unknown veracity
                                        manipulate public perception and interpretation. Misinformation and disinformation are particularly pressing
                                        issues for the climate change debate. They have confused the public, led to political inaction, and stalled
                                        support for climate-change mitigation measures [2, 3, 4, 5]. To counter the influence of potentially false
                                        claims on the formation of public opinion on climate change, researchers and experts began to manually
                                        assess claims’ veracity and publish their assessments on platforms such as climatefeedback.org and
                                        skepticalscience.com.
                                        Recently, new literature on algorithmic fact-checking has emerged, using machine learning and natural
                                        language understanding (nlu) to work on this problem from different angles. One influential framework that
                                        combines several of these aspects is fever [1]. It consists of a well-vetted dataset of human-generated claims
                                        and evidence retrieved from Wikipedia and a shared-task for evaluating implementations of claim validators.
                                        Given that the fever claims are artificially constructed, they may not share the characteristics of real-world
Preprint – climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims                                   2


claims. Consequently, researchers [6] started to collect real-world claims from multiple fact-checking
organizations along with evidence manually curated by human fact-checkers.
We believe that technology cannot and will not in the foreseeable future replace human fact-checkers. But it
can help to provide relevant, reliable evidence for humans to make better decisions about the veracity of a
claim. In this work, we focus on building a dataset of real-world claims specifically on climate change. We
collect 1,535 claims on the Internet. For each claim, we algorithmically retrieve the top five relevant evidence
candidate sentences from Wikipedia by the use of nlu where humans annotate each sentence as supporting,
refuting, or not giving enough information to validate the claim. We call this database of 7,675 annotated
claim-evidence pairs the climate-fever dataset.1 .

2       Methodology
We adopt a pipeline approach for our evidence retrieval and claim validation system similar to the baseline
system proposed by fever [1] and similar to virtually all competing implementations that followed [7, 8,
9, 10, 11]. The reason for building this system is two-fold. First, we require an algorithm to automatically
retrieve evidence candidates from a large Knowledge Document Collection2 (kdc) given a claim to build our
dataset. Second, we require an end-to-end claim validation algorithm to predict entailment given a claim and
evidence candidates to form a baseline, i.e., to answer the question if current claim validation approaches are
up to the task of algorithmically validating real-life claims.




Figure 1: Overview of the claim validation system consisting of the Evidence Candidate Retrieval System
(ecrs) and Entailment Prediction (ep) stage.

Our architecture consists of two distinct components, the Evidence Candidate Retrieval System (ecrs) and
the Entailment Prediction (ep) stage (see Fig. 1). For a given claim, the ecrs retrieves sentences as evidence
candidates from the kdc. A pair of claim and evidence candidate sentences are fed to the ep to predict one
of the labels SUPPORTS, REFUTES or NOT_ENOUGH_INFO, depending on whether the evidence is supporting,
refuting, or not giving enough information to validate the given claim. The fever dataset uses a copy of the
    1
   We make this dataset publicly available at http://climatefever.ai.
    2
   We define kdc as any large document corpus that contains well-founded textual (prose) representations of knowledge.
Examples for kdc’s are encyclopediae, newspaper archives, scientific publications.
Preprint – climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims                                         3


English Wikipedia containing only the introductory section of all articles as kdc. We also use the English
Wikipedia as kdc but, given the complexity of real-life climate claims, allow the complete body of Wikipedia
articles as a source of evidence.3


2.1   Retrieving and labeling climate claims (Task-1)

To obtain a set of candidate climate claims from the Internet, we follow an ad-hoc approach and use a set
of seed keywords in Google searches4 to identify possible sources for such claims. We either retrieved the
claims manually, or we scraped the pages automatically. We collected an equal number of climate-fever
claims from both scientifically-informed and climate change skeptics/deniers sources. This procedure resulted
in a balanced set of more than 3,000 climate claims.
fever claims were written and curated by annotators, enforcing a rigorous set of requirements for writing
claims. The resulting claims are self-contained, short, and syntactically simple. For example, one of the rare
claims related to climate change in fever reads:
"The Gray wolf is threatened by global warming."
In contrast, a candidate claim crawled from the wild is, e.g.:
“The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is misleading humanity about climate change
and sea levels, and that in fact, a new solar-driven cooling period is not far off.”
Given the complexity of real claims, we introduce the definition of a verifiable claim as follows.

Definition 1 (Verifiable claims) A claim is potentially verifiable if it is a) well-formed and b) subjectively
investigable.

      a) A well-formed claim is a single English sentence, consistent, unambiguous, and complete (i.e., not
         much implicit knowledge is needed for comprehension by the reader).
      b) A claim is subjectively investigable, if evidence could be retrieved from a knowledge document
         collection (kdc) that decreases the investigators uncertainty about the truthfulness (or falsehood) of
         the statement.


Equipped with our definition of verifiable claims, we asked climate scientists to label our collected claims
(Task 1). For each claim, we collected up to five votes. This annotation task resulted in more than 1,535
verifiable climate claims on which there was a sufficient consensus among the annotators. We give examples
of verifiable and non-verifiable claims in Appendix A.



    3
      This extension introduces a challenge with respect to the retrieval of evidence candidates. In the original setup, the
number of sentences retrieved after the document retrieval stage is permitting for pairwise ranking against a given claim
(up to 100 sentences on average in the introductory section). In our case, the number of sentences becomes intractable. We,
therefore, introduce a novel technique by leveraging learned sentence-embeddings combined with a fast vector similarity
index, faiss [12], to pre-select the most relevant sentences given a claim prior to the pairwise re-ranking. This can be
compared to Facebook AI’s Dense Passage Retrieval (dpr) [13] that uses a similar approach for solving Open-Domain
Question Answering (qa) by using dense embeddings rather than BM25.
    4
      For this study we did not automate this step. Instead, we manually searched for seed keywords, identified potential
targets, and used Python libraries such as requests and BeautifulSoup to download, parse and clean content for
subsequent processing.
Preprint – climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims                              4


2.2       Evidence candidate retrieval

To automatically retrieve relevant evidence candidates from Wikipedia for a given claim, we build an ecrs
pipeline consisting of the following three steps5 :
1. Document-level retrieval: Given a claim as input, we retrieve the most relevant documents from the kdc.
We apply an entity-linking approach similar to [8]. We use BM25 [16] to query an inverse document index
containing all English Wikipedia articles with entity mentions extracted from the claim. We use a dependency
parser to identify candidates of entity mentions, and we select the top-10 relevant articles.
2. Sentence-level retrieval: From the selected articles, we retrieve the top-100 most relevant sentences using
sentence-embeddings trained on the fever dataset. To produce task-specific sentence-embeddings, we adopt a
pretrained albert (large-v2) model in an average-pooled Siamese-setting [17]. We apply hard positive and
negative mining [18, 7] to compensate for the large number of possible negative examples.
3. Sentence re-ranking: Similar to [7] we train a point-wise model to predict a relevance score for pairs of
claim and evidence. We adopt a pretrained albert (base-v2) model with a binary classifier on the [CLS]
token. Every evidence is classified as evidence (1) or non-evidence (0). During training, we use claims along
with supporting and refuting evidence from the fever training split as examples for evidence and we randomly
sample sentences from the fever Wikipedia dump to provide examples for non-evidence. During inference,
we sort evidence sentences by the predicted score in descending order and select the top five sentences.


2.3       Evidence candidate labelling (Task-2)

In Task-2, the claims together with their top five evidence sentences as retrieved by the ecrs are displayed to
the annotators to label it as supporting, refuting, or not giving enough information to validate the claim.6 For
each claim, we collect five individual votes per claim-evidence pair, which allows us to analyze confidence
and to compute inter-annotator agreement. During post-processing we compute a micro-verdict (for every
claim-evidence pair) and a macro-label for every claim (aggregated on the five micro-verdicts). The micro-
verdict is given by the majority-vote for each claim-evidence pair (or it is NOT_ENOUGH_INFO on a tie). The
claim-label is by default NOT_ENOUGH_INFO unless there is supporting (SUPPORTS) or refuting (REFUTES)
evidence. If there is both supporting and refuting evidence the claim-label is DISPUTED.


2.4       Entailment prediction

For entailment prediction, the top five candidate evidence sentences along with the corresponding Wikipedia
article titles are jointly compared against the claim to predict one of the labels SUPPORTS, REFUTES, or
NOT_ENOUGH_INFO. We adopt a pretrained albert (large-v2) with a three-way classifier on the [CLS] token
of a concatenation of claim and evidence sentences. We train the model by using the ecrs to retrieve the top
five evidence candidates for each claim from the fever training split and use the gold-labels as ground-truth for
optimizing the cross-entropy loss. We reach a competitive label-accuracy of 77.68% on the fever dev-set using
our end-to-end pipeline (sota label-accuracy of 79.16% on the dev-set is reported by [10]). For measuring the
end-to-end performance of our claim-validation pipeline on the climate-fever dataset, we predict labels for
all claim and evidence-set pairs and compare against the gold-labels (claim-labels) from Task-2.


      5
     For BM25 in the first step we leverage Apache’s Lucene (https://lucene.apache.org/), while our model
implementations for steps two and three are both based on Google’s albert model [14] by using HuggingFace’s
transformers library [15].
   6
     Given our 1,535 climate claims and five sentences per claim, we end up with 7,675 annotations.
Preprint – climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims                                   5


Table 1: For evidence candidate labelling (Task-2) the 1,535 claims were split into 10 slices of 770 claims
each (except for the last slice). Each slice consists of 3,850 (770 × 5) claim-evidence pairs. This table lists for
each slice the average number of voters, the inter-annotator agreement (αKrippendorff ), the fraction of evidence
sentences with total agreement and the average entropy with respect to the select class (SUPPORTS, REFUTES
or NOT_ENOUGH_INFO).

             Slice    Size    Avg. Num. Voters       αKrippendorff   Total Agreement      Avg. Entropy
                 0    770                  2.227           0.283                0.613             0.266
                 1    770                  4.019           0.399                0.423             0.380
                 2    770                  2.000           0.522                0.745             0.176
                 3    770                  3.001           0.106                0.201             0.544
                 4    770                  2.000           0.215                0.504             0.344
                 5    770                  2.000           0.091                0.404             0.413
                 6    770                  2.000           0.252                0.529             0.327
                 7    770                  2.825           0.316                0.461             0.371
                 8    770                  2.000           0.431                0.635             0.253
                 9    745                  2.000           0.229                0.545             0.315


3   Discussion and future work
To gain insight into the 1,535 climate claims, we collected several statistics about the dataset. By using a
clustering technique, we identified more than 20 different topics represented by the collected claims, such
as claims concerning “climate change in the arctic”, “sea-level rise”, and more general ones concerning
“climate_change and global warming” (see Appendix B).
The evidence labelling task (Task-2) produced a dataset of 1,535 claims with an annotated set of five evidence
candidates for each claim. Each evidence sentence is labelled by at least two voters (2.4 ± 0.7 voters per
evidence on average). The distribution for aggregate claim-labels SUPPORTS, REFUTES, DISPUTED, and
NOT_ENOUGH_INFO is 655 (42.67%), 253 (16.5%), 153 (9.97%), and 474 (30.88%). While fever only
contains undisputed claims, we include claims for which both supporting and refuting evidence were found.
We believe that these examples are especially useful since they appear to be a common feature of real-world
claims.
Furthermore, we dealt with the limitation of fever-style majority-vote based aggregation for deciding on
a claim label. The approach is too naïve as, in many cases, retrieved evidence covers only some facets of
the claim, in which case not enough evidence is present to form a final opinion. More generally, a claim
(hypothesis) can at best be refuted by contrarian evidence. Epistemologically, it is impossible to assign a final
verdict. In our case, the only purpose for assigning a gold-label to each climate-claim is to measure a baseline
performance of a fever entailment predictor on our dataset. Our dataset provides both the micro-verdict labels
and the claim-labels for each claim-evidence pair.
For Task-2 we measured an average inter-annotator agreement (Krippendorff’s alpha) of 0.334. This low level
of agreement signifies the hardness of the task, i.e., even for human annotators, it is non-trivial to decide if an
evidence candidate supports or refutes a given claim. Table 1 details the level of disagreement on a per-slice
basis.7 We observed that training the annotators can help raise the agreement level (e.g. slice 8 was labelled
by two second-time annotators). Furthermore, we could also see that pairs of annotators that are experts on
the topic (e.g., climate scientists or ML specialists) tend to have a higher average agreement (cf. slices 0 and
3).
   7
     For Task-2 we split the 1,535 claims into 10 slices of 770 claims each (except for the last slice) such that each
annotator has to label 3,850 claim-evidence pairs.
Preprint – climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims                                     6


The fever-trained entailment-predictor evaluated on the climate-fever dataset8 yields the following scores
(cf. table 4): label-accuracy = 38.78%, recall = 38.78%, precision = 56.49%, F1 = 32.85%. We computed
weighted-averages for the last three metrics to compensate for the unbalanced labels. The real-life nature
of the climate-fever dataset proves to be a challenge indicated by the low label-accuracy (38.78% — only
slightly better than chance classification), as compared to the higher and competitive label-accuracy on
the original fever dev-set (77.69%). As can be seen in table 5, the model particularly struggles to predict
SUPPORTED claims while it performs slightly better on predicting REFUTED claims. We suspect that this result
can mainly be attributed to the stark qualitative differences between real-world claims of climate-fever and
the artificial nature of fever claims. As argued above, real-world claims pose some unique challenges and
subtleties. For instance, the claim
“The melting Greenland ice sheet is already a major contributor to rising sea level and
if it was eventually lost entirely, the oceans would rise by six metres around the world,
flooding many of the world’s largest cities.”
includes a statement that the sea level will rise six meters. An ecrs-retrieved evidence sentence may state a
sea-level rise of x +  meters. Although the numbers differ, the climate scientists labelled the evidence as
supportive. There are also more demanding cases. For instance, for the claim
“An article in Science magazine illustrated that a rise in carbon dioxide did not precede a
rise in temperatures, but actually lagged behind temperature rises by 200 to 1000 years.”
the ecrs provides both supporting and refuting evidence and labelled as such by the annotators. Such disputed
claims are absent in the fever dataset.9 To develop new strategies for tackling (climate-related) disinformation,
we must be able to cope with the complexity of real-life claims in general, and at the same time, account
for the specific characteristics of claims related to climate change. By further extending climate-fever and
making it publicly available, we provide a first step in the right direction and hope that our work will stimulate
a new long-term joint effort by climate science and ai community.

Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Thomas Hofmann (ETH Zurich) for his helpful contribution to an early draft of this
paper. We also thank Christian Huggel (University of Zurich) and Reto Knutti (ETH Zurich) for all their
comments and their climate science expertise. Finally, we are grateful to all climate scientists and annotators
who were involved in the annotation process to build the climate-fever database. Research supported with
Cloud tpus from Google’s TensorFlow Research Cloud (tfrc).

References
 [1] J. Thorne, A. Vlachos, C. Christodoulopoulos, and A. Mittal, “FEVER: a large-scale dataset for fact extraction and
     verification,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.05355, 2018.
 [2] W. R. Anderegg, J. W. Prall, J. Harold, and S. H. Schneider, “Expert credibility in climate change,” Proceedings of
     the National Academy of Sciences, vol. 107, no. 27, pp. 12 107–12 109, 2010.
 [3] D. Ding, E. W. Maibach, X. Zhao, C. Roser-Renouf, and A. Leiserowitz, “Support for climate policy and societal
     action are linked to perceptions about scientific agreement,” Nature Climate Change, vol. 1, no. 9, pp. 462–466,
     2011.
 [4] S. D. Benegal and L. A. Scruggs, “Correcting misinformation about climate change: The impact of partisanship in
     an experimental setting,” Climatic change, vol. 148, no. 1-2, pp. 61–80, 2018.
   8
       To stay compatible with the fever methodology for evaluation we simply excluded disputed claims from our dataset.
   9
       We list more examples of our climate-fever dataset in Appendix D.
Preprint – climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims                                      7


 [5] S. Van der Linden, A. Leiserowitz, S. Rosenthal, and E. Maibach, “Inoculating the public against misinformation
     about climate change,” Global Challenges, vol. 1, no. 2, p. 1600008, 2017.
 [6] I. Augenstein, C. Lioma, D. Wang, L. C. Lima, C. Hansen, C. Hansen, and J. G. Simonsen, “Multifc: A real-
     world multi-domain dataset for evidence-based fact checking of claims,” in Proceedings of the 2019 Conference
     on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and the 9th International Joint Conference on Natural
     Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), 2019, pp. 4677–4691.
 [7] A. Soleimani, C. Monz, and M. Worring, “BERT for evidence retrieval and claim verification,” in European
     Conference on Information Retrieval. Springer, 2020, pp. 359–366.
 [8] A. Hanselowski, H. Zhang, Z. Li, D. Sorokin, B. Schiller, C. Schulz, and I. Gurevych, “Ukp-athene: Multi-sentence
     textual entailment for claim verification,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.01479, 2018.
 [9] Y. Nie, H. Chen, and M. Bansal, “Combining fact extraction and verification with neural semantic matching
     networks,” in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, vol. 33, 2019, pp. 6859–6866.
[10] W. Zhong, J. Xu, D. Tang, Z. Xu, N. Duan, M. Zhou, J. Wang, and J. Yin, “Reasoning over semantic-level graph for
     fact checking,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.03745, 2019.
[11] Z. Liu, C. Xiong, M. Sun, and Z. Liu, “Fine-grained fact verification with kernel graph attention network,” in
     Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2020, pp. 7342–7351.
[12] J. Johnson, M. Douze, and H. Jégou, “Billion-scale similarity search with gpus,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1702.08734,
     2017.
[13] V. Karpukhin, B. Oğuz, S. Min, L. Wu, S. Edunov, D. Chen, and W.-t. Yih, “Dense passage retrieval for open-domain
     question answering,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.04906, 2020.
[14] Z. Lan, M. Chen, S. Goodman, K. Gimpel, P. Sharma, and R. Soricut, “ALBERT: A lite BERT for self-supervised
     learning of language representations,” 2019.
[15] T. Wolf, L. Debut, V. Sanh, J. Chaumond, C. Delangue, A. Moi, P. Cistac, T. Rault, R. Louf, M. Funtowicz, and
     J. Brew, “Huggingface’s transformers: State-of-the-art natural language processing,” ArXiv, vol. abs/1910.03771,
     2019.
[16] S. Robertson and H. Zaragoza, The probabilistic relevance framework: BM25 and beyond.          Now Publishers Inc,
     2009.
[17] N. Reimers and I. Gurevych, “Sentence-bert: Sentence embeddings using siamese bert-networks,” arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1908.10084, 2019.
[18] A. Hermans, L. Beyer, and B. Leibe, “In defense of the triplet loss for person re-identification,” arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1703.07737, 2017.
[19] L. McInnes, J. Healy, and J. Melville, “Umap: Uniform manifold approximation and projection for dimension
     reduction,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1802.03426, 2018.
[20] “Using umap for clustering — umap 0.4 documentation,” https://umap-learn.readthedocs.io/en/latest/clustering.html,
     (Accessed on 09/24/2020).
[21] S. Louhichi, M. Gzara, and H. B. Abdallah, “A density based algorithm for discovering clusters with varied density,”
     in 2014 World Congress on Computer Applications and Information Systems (WCCAIS). IEEE, 2014, pp. 1–6.
Preprint – climate-fever: A Dataset for Verification of Real-World Climate Claims                                           8


Appendix

A     Claim Labelling (Task 1)
In the following, we present examples of verifiable and non-verifiable claims given definition 1.
Example A.1
Observe the following three potentially verifiable claims:

          “NASA and NOAA data show that global averages in 2016 were 1.78 degrees F (0.99 degrees C)
          warmer than the mid-20th century average.”

          “The amount of carbon dioxide absorbed by the upper layer of the oceans is increasing by about 2
          billion tons per year.”

          “The bushfires in Australia were caused by arsonists and a series of lightning strikes, not ’climate
          change’.”

The above claims are verifiable (1) because each claim is well-formed and there is a high probability that evidence could
be retrieved from a kdc either supporting or refuting it.
Example A.2
Observe the following claim:

          “Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the acidity of surface ocean waters has increased
          by about 30 percent.13,14 This increase is the result of humans emitting more carbon dioxide into the
          atmosphere and hence more being absorbed into the oceans.”

This claim consists of more than a single sentence and therefore does not adhere to definition 1 and, as a consequence of
this, is not verifiable.
Example A.3
Observe the following claim:

          “Unprecedented climate change has caused sea level at Sydney Harbour to rise approximately 0.0 cm
          over the past 140 years.”

This claim is not verifiable because it contains information that is inconsistent (a sea level rise of 0.0 cm) in violation of
definition (1).
Example A.4
Observe the following claim:

          “CO2 emissions from all commercial operations in 2018 totaled 918 million metric tons—2.4% of
          global CO2 emissions from fossil fuel use.”

This statement is incomplete because for its comprehension the reader would need to know that ‘commercial operators’ is
referring to air travel.
Example A.5
Observe the following claim:

          “Yet nature-based solutions only receive only 2% of all climate funding.”

The above sentence is ambiguous because it is missing a subject. The collection of real claims sourced from the internet
contains many examples of this type of non-verifiable claims.
