NoFake at CheckThat! 2021: Fake News Detection
Using BERT
Sushma Kumari
Independent Researcher


                                      Abstract
                                      Much research has been done for debunking and analysing fake news. Many researchers study fake
                                      news detection in the last year, but many are limited to social media data. Currently, multiples fact-
                                      checkers are publishing their results in various formats. Also, multiple fact-checkers use different labels
                                      for the fake news, making it difficult to make a generalisable classifier. With the merge classes, the
                                      performance of the machine model can be enhanced. This domain categorisation will help group the
                                      article, which will help save the manual effort in assigning the claim verification. In this paper, we have
                                      presented BERT based classification model to predict the domain and classification. We have also used
                                      additional data from fact-checked articles. We have achieved a macro F1 score of 83.76 % for Task 3Aand
                                      85.55 % for Task 3B using the additional training data.

                                      Keywords
                                      Fake News, Multi-class Classification, Domain Classification, Misinformation




1. Introduction
Data journalism is a new journalistic discipline that focuses mainly on data-driven research
and presentation formats. However, a fundamental problem of data journalism and classical
journalism is that much data of journalistic interest is only available in the unstructured form:
as texts, tables and graphics in documents of various types (Word, PDF, e-mail, etc.) or on
websites. Also, there is a lack of a centralised data hub for gathering information from different
sources.
   There is an increasing amount of fake news in the media, social media, and other web sources.
Much research has been done for fake news detection and debunking of fake news [1]. In the
last two decades, there is a tremendous increase in the spread of misinformation, which is
also reflected by the number of fact-checking websites [1]. Fact-checking websites can help to
investigate claims and assist citizens in determining whether the information used in an article
is true or not. More than 213 fact-checking websites are working in 40+ languages across 100+
countries [2, 3, 4].
   There is no standard protocol for fact-checking services across different fact-checkers, and
they do not publish their proofed articles in a standard format, which leads to several conflicts.
Shahi et al. [3] discuss the need to detect news articles potentially containing fake information.
   In this paper, we discussed the method used for the fake news detection for the shared task

CLEF 2021 – Conference and Labs of the Evaluation Forum, September 21–24, 2021, Bucharest, Romania
" sushmashahi03@gmail.com (S. Kumari)
                                    © 2021 Copyright for this paper by its authors. Use permitted under Creative Commons License Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0).
 CEUR
 Workshop
 Proceedings
               http://ceur-ws.org
               ISSN 1613-0073       CEUR Workshop Proceedings (CEUR-WS.org)
at Checkthat!. The remainder of the paper is organised as related work describes the past
work, task description gives an overview of the task, Experiment section emphasises on the
experiment details and Conclusion, and Future Work focuses on the conclusion and future
aspect of the work.


2. Related Work
Fact-checking is a damage control method that is both essential and not scalable. It might be
hard to take the human component out of the picture any time soon. But still, automatic fake
news classification could help reduce the workload for the fact-checkers. The fake content is
spread in multiple formats; many of them are repurposed by changing the text, location, etc.
Fake news detection is a complex problem. Research has been done on fake news detection
using social media data like tweets [2], YouTube videos [3], but less research has focused on the
news articles. One of the primary reasons is the lack of corpus o news articles. Fake news is
spread in several domains like crime, election, economy.
   There is a lack of corpus to train Machine Learning based on fact-checking. In the last few
years, a collection of small datasets related to fact-checking has been published. These datasets
are a mixture of fake news topics, For instance, US election 2016[5]. Still, fact-checking is
dominant in the English language and few sources like Snopes, Politifact etc.
   Multi-FC corpus describes the different kinds of fact-checking datasets available and their
limitations[6]. The authors have come up with a multi-domain, evidence-based fact-checking
dataset. They have also described the metadata of Fact-check articles. [7] describes the task of
fact-checking and construction of dataset using the process used by journalists. Several methods
are published for automatic detection of fake news, Pérez-Rosas et al. discuss the automatic
detection of fake news and linguists differences in false and legitimate content. [9] analyse,
compare and summarise the several different methods available for fake news detection. The
authors give an overview of methods that have been tested for fake news detection. Research
has been done to look inside on the feature of a news story in the modern diaspora along with
different kinds of story and their impact on people[10].
   Both COVID-19 pandemic and infodemic spread in parallel, Mesquita et al.; proposes a
framework to fight against fake medical news because fake news can intensify the effect of the
COVID-19 pandemic [11]. All health workers, scientists, the government are trying to fight
against fake medical news. In March 2020, several cases were discovered where people are
consuming partially true information about COVID-19 on Facebook and WhatsApp without
using the proper medical terms, which creates a panic about medicine and prevention for
COVID-19 [12]. By analysing the search behaviour of people in Italy from January to March
2020 and found that a "large number of infodemic monikers were observed across Italy" [13].
   During the time of the pandemic, fake news is spread all over the world in different languages.
The fact-news is covered in different domains like origin and spread, conspiracy theory etc.
There is a lack of resources that are multilingual and cross-domain and have been collected
from multiple sources.
3. Task Description
The task was organised as CLEF 2021 - CheckThat! Lab Detecting Check-Worthy Claims,
Previously Fact-Checked Claims, and Fake News [14, 15]. In task 3 of CheckThat!, the core idea
of task is to classify fake news [16]. The task is defined as follows.
   Task Definition: The first task is to classify the text of the news article into the four possible
classes into true, partially true, false, or other (e.g., claims in dispute) and predict the topical
domain of the article. The task is divided into two sub-task, they are: Subtask 3A: Multi-class
fake news detection of news articles (English): Sub-task would be the classification of news
articles in four classes as defined below:

    • False - The main claim made in an article is untrue.
    • Partially False - The main claim of an article is a mixture of true and false information.
      The article contains partially true and partially false information but cannot be considered
      as 100% true. It includes all articles in categories like partially false, partially true, mostly
      true, miscaptioned, misleading etc., as defined by different fact-checking services.
    • True - This rating indicates that the primary elements of the main claim are demonstrably
      true.
    • Other- An article cannot be categorised as true, false, or partially false due to lack of
      evidence about its claims. This category includes articles in dispute and unproven articles.

  Subtask 3B: We often observed that the incoming flow of requests is from different topics
such as cancer, COVID-19, diet, etc. With this categorisation, we can assign the respective
person/expert to verify the content. It will help to save the manual effort in assigning the claim
verification. The task was assigned for the following domain:

    • Health: Article talking about health topics
    • Election: The main focus of the article is election focused.
    • Crime: These articles are mainly focused on crime.
    • Climate: Articles which discuss climate issue
    • Economy: Articles which discussed economic activity.
    • Education: Articles focused on educational content.


4. Experiment
Transfer learning is a technique where a deep learning model trained on a large dataset performs
similar tasks on another dataset. We call such a deep learning model a pre-trained model. The
most renowned examples of pre-trained models are the computer vision deep learning models
trained on the ImageNet dataset. So, it is better to use a pre-trained model as a starting point to
solve a problem rather than building a model from scratch.
   For training the model, We have to download the external data from the fact-checked articles.
We have used the AMUSED framework [17], and FakeCovid [3] concept to merge the articles
into four categories. We have downloaded 206,432 facts checked articles from more than 100
fact-checking websites. To gather the external dataset, we developed a Python-based crawler
using Beautiful soup [18] to fetch all the news articles from the 92 different fact-checking
websites; they are Poynter, Snopes, PolitiFact etc. Our crawler collects important information
like the title of the news articles, name of the fact-checking websites, date of publication, the
text of the news articles, and a class of news articles. For training, we have used the combination
of text and text with the given dataset of the task. We have applied the basic cleaning process
of natural language processing like removing special characters, punctuation marks etc.
   To classify fake news articles, we used the state-of-the-art neural network language model
BERT, which has been pre-trained on a large corpus to solve language processing tasks [19]. An
essential advantage of BERT is that it can be fine-tuned for task-specific datasets and allows high
text classification accuracy even for smaller datasets. In the context of fake news classification,
BERT has already been applied for multiclass classification tasks, for example, on the Chinese
social media platform Weibo, where it achieved considerable accuracy[20]. The randomisation
of the data prevents seasonal patterns from being learned by the model. The randomisation of
the data prevents seasonal patterns from being learned by the model. For BERT fine-tuning,
the models for the videos were trained on for four epochs, and the models for the comments
were trained on for three epochs with a learning rate of 2e-5. We set hidden units as 300 and
training epoch as 200. Each training process continues until the restriction or validation loss
is continued. The batch size is set to 10, and the learning rate is 0.001. After the individual
prediction on the two test datasets, we evaluated the accuracy of the two models using the
weighted F1 score. For classification, the model gave a macro F1 score of 83.76 % for Task 3A
and 85.55 % for Task 3B.


5. Conclusion & Future Work
In this paper, We have presented a classification model for detecting the classification of fake
news and its domain. Using the BERT model, the model performed well compared to the
traditional machine learning technique. With the proposed model, the problem of fake news
classification, domain identification will be addressed. As future work, the concept can be used
for determining fake news on a large scale. Even the type of fake news can be embedded in the
HTML content of the article [21].
   Getting a fake news corpus is a challenging task, and with the limited dataset, it is hard to
enhance the machine learning model’s performance. With the external dataset, the performance
of the classifier is increased. We also observed that different fact-checking websites are checking
several duplicates of claims. Several old claims are repurposed as fake news. So, in future work,
detecting similar claims would help find fake news classes using text matching.


References
 [1] L. Graves, F. Cherubini, The rise of fact-checking sites in europe (2016).
 [2] G. K. Shahi, A. Dirkson, T. A. Majchrzak, An exploratory study of covid-19 misinformation
     on twitter, Online social networks and media (2021) 100104.
 [3] G. K. Shahi, D. Röchert, S. Stieglitz, Covid ct: Analysis and detection of different conspiracy
     theories on youtube in the context of covid-19 (2020).
 [4] G. K. Shahi, T. A. Majchrzak, Exploring the Spread of COVID-19 Misinformation on Twitter,
     Technical Report, EasyChair, 2021.
 [5] W. Y. Wang, " liar, liar pants on fire": A new benchmark dataset for fake news detection,
     arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.00648 (2017).
 [6] I. Augenstein, C. Lioma, D. Wang, L. C. Lima, C. Hansen, C. Hansen, J. G. Simonsen,
     Multifc: A real-world multi-domain dataset for evidence-based fact checking of claims,
     arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.03242 (2019).
 [7] A. Vlachos, S. Riedel, Fact checking: Task definition and dataset construction, in: Pro-
     ceedings of the ACL 2014 Workshop on Language Technologies and Computational Social
     Science, 2014, pp. 18–22.
 [8] V. Pérez-Rosas, B. Kleinberg, A. Lefevre, R. Mihalcea, Automatic detection of fake news,
     arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.07104 (2017).
 [9] X. Zhou, R. Zafarani, Fake news: A survey of research, detection methods, and opportuni-
     ties, arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00315 2 (2018).
[10] S. B. Parikh, P. K. Atrey, Media-rich fake news detection: A survey, in: 2018 IEEE
     Conference on Multimedia Information Processing and Retrieval (MIPR), IEEE, 2018, pp.
     436–441.
[11] C. T. Mesquita, A. Oliveira, F. L. Seixas, A. Paes, Infodemia, fake news and medicine:
     Science and the quest for truth, International Journal of Cardiovascular Sciences (2020).
[12] D. Orso, N. Federici, R. Copetti, L. Vetrugno, T. Bove, Infodemic and the spread of fake
     news in the covid-19-era, European Journal of Emergency Medicine (2020).
[13] A. Rovetta, A. S. Bhagavathula, Covid-19-related web search behaviors and infodemic
     attitudes in italy: Infodemiological study, JMIR Public Health and Surveillance 6 (2020)
     e19374.
[14] P. Nakov, G. Da San Martino, T. Elsayed, A. Barrón-Cedeño, R. Míguez, S. Shaar, F. Alam,
     F. Haouari, M. Hasanain, N. Babulkov, A. Nikolov, G. K. Shahi, J. M. Struß, T. Mandl, The
     CLEF-2021 CheckThat! lab on detecting check-worthy claims, previously fact-checked
     claims, and fake news, in: Proceedings of the 43rd European Conference on Information
     Retrieval, ECIR ’21, Lucca, Italy, 2021, pp. 639–649. URL: https://link.springer.com/chapter/
     10.1007/978-3-030-72240-1_75.
[15] P. Nakov, G. Da San Martino, T. Elsayed, A. Barrón-Cedeño, R. Míguez, S. Shaar, F. Alam,
     F. Haouari, M. Hasanain, N. Babulkov, A. Nikolov, G. K. Shahi, J. M. Struß, T. Mandl,
     S. Modha, M. Kutlu, Y. S. Kartal, Overview of the CLEF-2021 CheckThat! lab on detect-
     ing check-worthy claims, previously fact-checked claims, and fake news", year = 2021,
     booktitle = "proceedings of the 12th international conference of the clef association: Infor-
     mation access evaluation meets multiliguality, multimodality, and visualization", series =
     CLEF ’2021, address = Bucharest, Romania (online)„ ????
[16] G. K. Shahi, J. M. Struß, T. Mandl, Overview of the CLEF-2021 CheckThat! lab task 3
     on fake news detection, in: Working Notes of CLEF 2021—Conference and Labs of the
     Evaluation Forum, CLEF ’2021, Bucharest, Romania (online), 2021.
[17] G. K. Shahi, Amused: An annotation framework of multi-modal social media data, 2020.
     arXiv:2010.00502.
[18] L. Richardson, Beautiful soup documentation, April (2007).
[19] J. Devlin, M.-W. Chang, K. Lee, K. Toutanova, Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional
     transformers for language understanding, arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 (2018).
[20] T. Wang, K. Lu, K. P. Chow, Q. Zhu, Covid-19 sensing: negative sentiment analysis on
     social media in china via bert model, Ieee Access 8 (2020) 138162–138169.
[21] G. K. Shahi, D. Nandini, S. Kumari, Inducing schema. org markup from natural language
     context, Kalpa Publications in Computing 10 (2019) 38–42.
