                             1                                      2




                           3

                                                                                                4




                           5




Figure 16: Interface of quality control. 1 Text field for entering the justification. 2 Label of the
claim and the checkbox of unreadable. Notice that once the unreadable option is selected, annotators
do not need to select the label for the claim. 3 The question corresponds to the current claim. Here
we have two question-answer pairs. If the annotator think the there exist potential problems with this
question, check any options applied. 4 The answers corresponds to the question on the left. If the
annotator think the there exist potential problems with the answer, check any options applied. 5
Buttons for submitting the current claim, going to the previous claim, and next claim.


price of vanilla icecream, for which an increase did take place, but leaves out other flavours, where
no increase happened.”

J.6     Dispute Resolution

For some claims, there may be a disagreement between the labels produced by annotators in the
question generation and quality control phases. In those cases, the claim will go through a second
round of question generation and quality control. While the instructions given in Sections J.4.3
and J.5 still apply, we give a few extra recommendations specific to dispute resolution here.

J.6.1    Vague Claims

Some claims may pass to the dispute resolution phase because they are too vague for annotators in
phases two and three to agree on the meaning. In order to catch these cases, the final step of dispute
resolution – that is, the extra quality control step at the end – includes an additional label, Claim Too
Vague. This should be select when and only when an annotator can understand the claim (e.g. it is
readable), but there is too much doubt over how it is supposed to be interpreted. For example, the
claim “Ohio is the best state” is too vague as it is not clear what “best” refers to.


                                                   39
J.6.2   Adding and Modifying Questions
The aim of dispute resolution is to resolve the conflict so that a potential new reader would come to a
conclusive verdict. As such, the annotator should not necessarily agree with either the Phase Two or
the Phase Three-verdict; they should attempt to make the fact-checking unambiguous. There may be
cases where new questions must be added, and cases where existing questions should be changed
but no new questions are necessary. There may also be cases where no change to the evidence is
necessary at all, but where either the Phase Two or Phase Three-annotator has simply entered a wrong
verdict. For this final category adding additional evidence to provide clarity can still be helpful, but it
is not necessary; annotators should use their own judgment here.

J.6.3   NEI-verdicts
A common case for dispute resolution is the situation where the Phase Two annotator has selected
Supported, Refuted, or Conflicting Evidence/Cherrypicking as the verdict, but the Phase Three
annotator has selected Not Enough Evidence. This can happen for example if Phase Two annotators
forget to gather some of the evidence they use to reach the verdict, rely on aspects only stated in
the fact-checking article without making it explicit through a question-answer pair, or overestimate
the strength of the evidence they have gathered. In these cases, the aim of dispute resolution is to
gather additional evidence and resolve the conflict that way; i.e. it is not sufficient to give a Not
Enough Information-verdict without attempting to add evidence (although the same time limit as in
P2 applies).




                                                    40
