            AV ERI T E C: A Dataset for Real-world Claim
             Verification with Evidence from the Web


                       Michael Schlichtkrull∗, Zhijiang Guo∗ , Andreas Vlachos
                Department of Computer Science and Technology, University of Cambridge
                                 {mss84,zg283,av308}@cam.ac.uk



                                                 Abstract
             Existing datasets for automated fact-checking have substantial limitations, such
             as relying on artificial claims, lacking annotations for evidence and intermediate
             reasoning, or including evidence published after the claim. In this paper, we
             introduce AV ERI T E C, a new dataset of 4,568 real-world claims covering fact-
             checks by 50 different organizations. Each claim is annotated with question-
             answer pairs supported by evidence available online, as well as textual justifications
             explaining how the evidence combines to produce a verdict. Through a multi-
             round annotation process, we avoid common pitfalls including context dependence,
             evidence insufficiency, and temporal leakage, and reach a substantial inter-annotator
             agreement of κ = 0.619 on verdicts. We develop a baseline as well as an evaluation
             scheme for verifying claims through question-answering against the open web.


1       Introduction
Fact-checking is considered crucial for limiting the impact of misinformation [Lewandowsky et al.,
2020]. Unfortunately, not enough resources are available for manual fact-checking. Automated
fact-checking (AFC) has been proposed as an assistive tool for fact-checkers, moderators, and citizen
journalists to facilitate it [Cohen et al., 2011, Vlachos and Riedel, 2014], inspiring applications
in journalism [Miranda et al., 2019, Dudfield, 2020, Nakov et al., 2021] and other domains, e.g.
science [Wadden et al., 2020].
Substantial progress has been made on common benchmarks, such as FEVER [Thorne et al., 2018]
and MultiFC [Augenstein et al., 2019]. Nevertheless, existing resources have recently come under
criticism. Many datasets (for example, Thorne et al. [2018], Schuster et al. [2021], Aly et al. [2021])
contain purpose-made claims derived from sources such as Wikipedia, and are thus unlike real-world
claims checked by journalists. Further, in these datasets, refuted claims are produced by corrupting
existing sentences. Datasets that do contain real-world claims either lack evidence annotation [Wang,
2017], or annotate it superficially using automated means, resulting in issues such as including
evidence published days or weeks after the investigated claims [Glockner et al., 2022].
To address these limitations we introduce AV ERI T E C (Automated VERIfication of TExtual Claims),
which combines real-world claims with realistic evidence retrieved from the web, as well as justifica-
tions for veracity labels. We formulate retrieval as question generation and answering, providing a
structured representation of the evidence and reasoning supporting or refuting the claim. The free-text
justifications detail how the evidence is used to reach the verdict, including cases of conflicting
evidence, matching best practises for human fact-checkers [Borel, 2016]. In constructing AV ERI T E C,
we ameliorate three issues afflicting existing datasets with real-world claims:

         1. Context Dependence: Ousidhoum et al. [2022] found that claims in some datasets based
            on fact-checking articles (e.g., Fan et al. [2020]) cannot be verified without additional
    ∗
        Equal Contribution.


37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023) Track on Datasets and Benchmarks.
                                                 Non-text or non-factual claim

                                                                                                     Label mismatch


              Claim        Question & Answer           First Evidence            Question & Answer              Second Evidence
           Normalization      Generation              Sufficiency Check             Generation                  Sufficiency Check



                                               Label match                                            Label match




Figure 1: Diagram for our annotation process. Claims are first selected and normalized. Then,
two rounds of question-answer pair generation and evidence sufficiency check ensure high-quality
evidence annotation.

             information from the articles they were extracted from. This could for example be due
             to unresolved coreference or ellipsis, e.g. in “unemployment is rising” it is unclear which
             geographical/temporal context is being considered.
         2. Evidence Insufficiency: Glockner et al. [2022] found that labels in some datasets
            (e.g., Hanselowski et al. [2019]) often do not match the annotated evidence, because they
            rely on e.g., assumptions about the speaker of the claim. This is significantly different from
            not enough evidence verdicts, which is a label for claims where evidence could not be found.
         3. Temporal Leaks: Glockner et al. [2022] found that annotations in some datasets (e.g., Au-
            genstein et al. [2019]) contain leaks from the future. For example, a claim from January
            might be annotated with evidence from March that year. Leaks can also happen between
            splits, if e.g., evidence for a training claim from 2021 also pertains to a test claim from 2020.

We address (1) through an initial normalisation step, where annotators enrich claims with necessary
information from the fact-checking article. We verify the adequacy of this, and address (2), by
combining multiple rounds of annotation with a “blind” quality control step, re-annotating any claims
with insufficient evidence. We address (3) by restricting annotators to evidence documents published
before the claim, and by ordering our training, development, and test splits temporally. With the
increasing reliance on large pretrained language models, temporal ordering provides an additional
benefit: if the training data for the language model is cut off before the temporal start of the test set,
leaks from pretraining cannot occur either.
AV ERI T E C consists of 4,568 examples, collected from 50 fact-checking organizations using the
Google FactCheck Claim Search API2 ; itself based on ClaimReview3 . Our annotation, which involved
up to five annotators per claim, resulted in substantial inter-annotator agreement, with a free-marginal
κ of 0.619 [Randolph, 2005]. We further develop a baseline to explore the feasibility of the task,
relying on Google Search, BM25 [Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009], retrieved in-context prompts [Liu
et al., 2022, Rubin et al., 2022], and a trained stance detection model. AV ERI T E C is the first AFC
dataset to provide both question-answer decomposition and justifications, as well as avoid issues
of context dependence, evidence insufficiency, and temporal leaks. Our dataset and baseline are
available under a CC-BY-NC-4.0 license at https://github.com/MichSchli/AVeriTeC.

2       Related Work
Sourcing real-world claims from fact-checking articles is popular (e.g. Wang [2017]), as extracting
claims from fact-checkers guarantees checkworthiness. That is, any claim included in the resulting
dataset is deemed interesting enough to be worth the time of a professional journalist (see Hassan
et al. [2015]). Previous real-world datasets either lack annotations for evidence, or suffer from context
dependence, evidence insufficiency, or temporal leaks. Further, they do not provide annotations for
intermediate steps, and only a minority (Alhindi et al. [2018], Kotonya and Toni [2020]) provide
justifications. A comparison between AVeriTeC and prior datasets can be seen in Table 1.
    2
        https://toolbox.google.com/factcheck/apis, available under a CC-BY-4.0 license.
    3
        https://www.claimreviewproject.com/


                                                               2
                                                            Claim                                Evidence
    Dataset
                                              Source       Type      Independence   Sufficient   Unleaked   Retrieved
    FEVER [Thorne et al., 2018]              Wikipedia   Synthetic        ✓             ✓          N/A         ✓
    VitaminC [Schuster et al., 2021]         Wikipedia   Synthetic        ✓             ✓          N/A         ✓
    FEVEROUS [Aly et al., 2021]              Wikipedia   Synthetic        ✓             ✓          N/A         ✓
    SciFact [Wadden et al., 2020]             Science    Synthetic        ✓             ✓          N/A         ✓
    FM2 [Saakyan et al., 2021]                 Game      Synthetic        ✓             ✓          N/A         ✓
    Covid-Fact [Saakyan et al., 2021]         Reddit     Synthetic        ✓             ✓          N/A         ✓
    Liar-Plus [Alhindi et al., 2018]         Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✓           ✗          ✗
    PolitiHop [Ostrowski et al., 2021]       Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✓           ✗          ✗
    MultiFC [Augenstein et al., 2019]        Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✗           ✗          ✓
    XFact [Gupta and Srikumar, 2021]         Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✗           ✗          ✓
    PubHealth [Kotonya and Toni, 2020]       Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✗           ✓          ✗
    WatClaimCheck [Khan et al., 2022]        Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✗           ✓          ✗
    ClaimDecomp [Chen et al., 2022]          Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✗           ✓          ✗
    Snopes [Hanselowski et al., 2019]        Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✗           ✓          ✗
    QABrief [Fan et al., 2020]               Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✗           ✓          ✗
    ClimateFEVER [Diggelmann et al., 2020]     Web         Real           ✗             ✗           ✓          ✓
    HealthVer [Sarrouti et al., 2021]          Web         Real           ✗             ✗           ✓          ✓
    CHEF [Hu et al., 2022]                   Factcheck     Real           ✗             ✓           ✗          ✓
    AV ERI T E C                             Factcheck     Real           ✓             ✓           ✓          ✓

Table 1: Comparison of fact-checking datasets. Source indicates where the claims are collected
from, such as Wikipedia, or fact-checking articles (Factcheck). Type indicates whether the claims are
synthetic or real-world. Independence indicates whether the claim is context independent. Sufficient
indicates whether the evidence can provide sufficient information. Unleaked means whether the
evidence contains leaks from the future and retrieved denotes whether the dataset involves evidence
retrieval instead of relying on pre-retrieved passages e.g. the fact-checking article.

Beyond evidence insufficiency and temporal leakage, Glockner et al. [2022] also found that many
examples require a source guarantee to refute, i.e. a guarantee that the claimant’s underlying reason
for making the claim is known to the debunker. For example, evidence against the claim “COVID-19
vaccines may kill sharks” can only be found when incorporating the underlying reasoning of the
claimant, that the manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccines requires a chemical extracted from sharks.
We do not explicitly provide such a guarantee; however, as each claim in AV ERI T E C is annotated
with the original claimant, these underlying reasons can be recovered through question-answer pairs.
Question-answer decomposition is considered a promising strategy; Yang et al. [2022] proposed
such a model even without a dataset of annotated question-answer pairs. Two recent datasets cast
fact-checking as question-answering: Fan et al. [2020] and Chen et al. [2022]. However, Fan et al.’s
[2020] question-answer pairs were only written to add relevant context, not to capture entire the
fact-checking process, and thus lack evidence sufficiency. Ousidhoum et al. [2022] furthermore
identified context dependence as a significant concern in Fan et al. [2020]: many questions are
impossible to generate given only the claim, as they refer to entities and events only mentioned in the
original fact-checking article. Chen et al. [2022] did – like us – attempt to ensure evidence sufficiency.
However, they take no steps to verify their success. Furthermore, their evidence is taken directly from
the fact-checking articles which are written after the claim, thus exhibiting temporal leakage.


3       Annotation Structure

Our dataset consists of 4,568 real-world claims annotated with question-answer pairs representing
the evidence, a veracity label, and a textual justification describing how the evidence supports the
label. An example can be seen in Figure 2.
Reasoning about evidence is represented through questions and answers. Questions may have
multiple answers, a natural way to show potential disagreements in the evidence. Questions can refer
to previous questions, allowing for multi-hop reasoning. Answers (other than “No answer could be
found.”) must be supported by a source url linking to a web document. To avoid sources disappearing
from the web, we cache all pages used as evidence in the internet archive4 .
Claims in AFC datasets are typically supported or refuted by evidence, or there is not enough evidence.
We add a fourth class: conflicting evidence/cherry-picking. This covers both conflicting evidence, and
    4
        https://archive.org


                                                          3
                             Claim: The USA has succeeded in reducing greenhouse emissions in previous years.
                                              Date: 2020.11.2       Speaker: Morgan Griffith         Type: …


    Q1: What were the total gross U.S.    Q2: When did greenhouse gas emissions drop in   Q3: Did the total gross U.S. greenhouse gas emissions rise after 2017?
    greenhouse gas emissions in 2007?     US?
                                                                                          A3: Yes. After 3 years of decline, US CO2 emissions rose sharply last
    A1: In 2007, total gross U.S.         A2: In 2017, total gross U.S. greenhouse gas    year. Based on preliminary power generation, natural gas, and oil
    greenhouse gas emissions were 7,371   emissions were 6,472.3 MMT, or million metric   consumption data, we estimate emissions increased by 3.4% in 2018.
    MMT.                                  tons, carbon dioxide.


                                               Verdict: Conflicting Evidence/Cherrypicking.
                                   Justification: It is true they did reduce emissions however they have now
                                    increased again. It is unknown exactly what years are being referred to.



Figure 2: Example claim from AV ERI T E C. As opposed to previous datasets, ours naturally combines
question-answer pairs that break down the evidence retrieval with justifications that show how
evidence leads to verdicts.


technically true claims that mislead by excluding important context. For real-world claims, sources
may interpret events differently, and therefore legitimately disagree. This differs from Schuster et al.
[2021], which studies claims for which the evidence has been revised. Adding a fourth class has
also recently been discussed in the context of natural language inference [Jiang and Marneffe, 2022],
although there it is usually ambiguity in the premise or hypothesis leading to the conflict.
AV ERI T E C also provides textual justifications that explain how verdicts are reached from the evidence.
Where sources disagree, best practices for established fact-checkers is to provide a textual explanation
of why the claim misleads [Uscinski and Butler, 2013, Amazeen, 2015]. These justifications can
be substantial [Toulmin, 1958], i.e. they may introduce logical leaps supported by commonsense
or inductive reasoning beyond the retrieved evidence. For example, if a claim states that 50% of a
population group were vaccinated by February 1st, and evidence shows only 33% had been vaccinated
by January 31st, the justification may reason that a 50% rate one day later is unlikely.
We include several fields of metadata: the speaker of the claim, the publisher of the claim, the date
the claim was published, and the location most relevant to the claim. These can be used to support
questions, answers, and justifications. We also annotate the claim type and fact-checking strategy of
each claim. Type represents common aspects, e.g., whether claims are about numerical facts; strategy
represents the approach of the fact-checkers, e.g., whether they relied on expert testimony. Types and
strategies should not be used as input to models (at inference time), but can provide useful data for
analysis.

4       Annotation Process
Starting from 8,000 fact-checking articles, we first identified and discarded 537 duplicates and 802
paywalled or dead articles. We passed the remainder through a five-phase pipeline – see Figure 1. First,
an annotator extracts claims and relevant metadata from each article, providing context independence.
Second, an annotator generates questions and answers them using the web. These annotators also
choose a temporary verdict. Third, a different annotator provides a justification and a verdict based
solely on the annotated question-answer pairs; this serves as an evidence sufficiency check. Any
claim for which the two verdicts do not match is passed through the last two phases again. If the
verdicts still disagree, the claim is discarded. Different annotators were used for each claim in each
phase – i.e., no annotator saw the same claim twice. Our annotation was performed by the company
Appen5 ; details and annotation guidelines can be found in Appendices C and J.

Claim Extraction & Normalisation Annotators extracted the central claims from each fact-
checking article, enriching them with the necessary context. This is necessary as many fact-checking
articles cover multiple claims (e.g., several rumours circulating about an event). Further, some claims
lack adequate contextualization [Ousidhoum et al., 2022]. For example, the claim “we have 21 million
unemployed” requires coreference resolution. After claim extraction, we discarded speculative claims,
    5
        https://appen.com/


                                                                           4
    Split                                         Train                      Dev                       Test
    Claims                                        3068                        500                     1000
    Questions / Claim                              2.60                      2.57                      2.57
    Reannotated (%)                                28.1                      24.4                      25.1
    End date                               25-08-2020                31-10-2020                22-12-2021
    Labels (S / R / C / N) (%)   27.6 / 56.8 / 6.4 / 9.2   24.4 / 61.0 / 7.6 / 7.0   25.5 / 62.0 / 6.3 / 6.2

Table 2: Descriptive statistics for the dataset. Statistics for labels are split into supported (S), refuted
(R), conflicting evidence/cherrypicking (C), and not enough evidence (N). For the dev and test splits,
the start date is the end date of the previous split; the train set has no start date.


i.e. unverifiable statements about future events or personal opinions, and multimodal claims, i.e.
claims where the type or the strategy inherently involves modalities beyond text.

Question Generation & Answering Annotators generate questions and answer them providing
evidence about the claim. The aim is to “deconstruct” the reasoning of the fact-checker into a
QA-structure, extracting question-answer pairs that match the content of their enquiries. This makes
the process better amenable to annotators who are not trained journalists, and provides structured
representations for model development and evaluation. Each question must be accompanied by an
answer (or marked unanswerable), and answers must be backed by sources. We advise annotators
that extractive answers are preferred, but abstractive answers are also allowed. Annotators in this
phase are asked to provide a verdict based on their retrieved evidence, possibly different from the one
in the fact-checking article.
As annotators follow the fact-checking articles, the ideal evidence sources for answer are the docu-
ments linked from the articles. For answers are not found in the linked documents, we provide access
to a custom Google search bar. This search bar is restricted to show documents published only before
the claim date, in contrast to prior work [Fan et al., 2020]. Furthermore, unlike Alhindi et al. [2018]
and Hanselowski et al. [2019], the fact-checking article itself cannot be used as evidence.
We note that, where annotators could not find the publication date of the claim, their instructions were
to use the publication date of the fact-checking article instead. As the process of fact-checking can
take journalists several days, there is a window in which news about the claim can be published that
we cannot prevent from being used as evidence. Further, the Google API does not always correctly
infer the publication dates of articles. As such, our guarantee against temporal leakage is approximate
(see Section 8). For the development set, we estimated that around 6% of answers are sourced from
a fact-checking domain. This is primarily because of the earlier publication of an article about the
same claim by a different fact-checking organization.

Evidence Sufficiency Check Once question-answer pairs have been generated, we present each
claim along with its question-answer pairs to a new annotator. This annotator does not see the
fact-checking article. They then produce a verdict and a textual justification for it. We compare this
verdict to the one produced by the question and answer annotator, and if they disagree we repeat
the question-&-answer generation and sufficiency check steps with new annotators to improve the
evidence and the verdict.


5      Dataset Statistics

We split our dataset into training, validation, and test data temporally (see Table 2). Claims have
on average 2.60 questions, and questions have on average 1.07 answers. Most answers (53%) are
extractive, followed by abstractive (26%) and boolean (17%) answers. A few questions (4%) are
marked unanswerable as no available evidence could be found by the annotators. Statistics for source
document modality, fact-checker strategy, and claim type can be seen in Appendix F. We note that
AV ERI T E C is somewhat unbalanced – the majority of claims are refuted. This is a consequence of
our choice to rely on fact-checking articles, as journalists tend to pick false or misleading claims to
work on. Our dataset includes all ClaimReview claims labeled supported (or any variation thereof,
e.g. true) within our temporal limits (for more detail see Appendix I.1).


                                                     5
To measure the inter-annotator agreement of our annotation scheme, we had a second set of annotators
re-annotate 100 claims from the dataset. In this we assumed the claim extraction and normalization
step was done, and the annotators repeated the question and answer generation phase. Since we
have an unbalanced dataset, following Kazemi et al. [2021], Ousidhoum et al. [2022], we therefore
measure agreement using Randolph’s [2005] free-marginal multirater κ, an alternative to Fleiss’ κ
more suitable for unbalanced datasets [Warrens, 2010]. Our observed agreement score of κ = 0.619
is substantial, and compares well to those for other “hard” fact-checking annotation tasks, e.g. Kazemi
et al. [2021], who got between κ = .30 and κ = .63 depending on the language. Using Fleiss’
κ [Fleiss, 1971], we get an agreement score of 0.503.

 6   Evaluation
To evaluate models on AV ERI T E C, we follow Thorne et al. [2018] and score retrieved evidence
based on agreement with gold evidence, and give credit to veracity predictions (and justifications)
only when correct evidence has been found. However, unlike in FEVER and other datasets using a
closed source of evidence such as Wikipedia, AV ERI T E C is intended for use with evidence retrieved
from the open web. Since the same evidence may be found in different sources, we cannot rely on
exact matching to score retrieved evidence. As such, we instead rely on approximate matching.
To measure how well a set of generated questions and answers match the references, we rely on a
pairwise scoring function f : S × S → R, where S is the set of sequences of tokens. We then use the
Hungarian Algorithm [Kuhn, 1955] to find an optimal matching of generated sequences to reference
sequences. Formally, let X : Ŷ ×Y → {0, 1} be a boolean function denoting the assignment between
the generated sequences Ŷ and the reference sequences Y . Then, the total score u is calculated as:
                                           1       XX
                           uf (Ŷ , Y ) =      max       f (ŷ, y)X(ŷ, y)                        (1)
                                          |Y |
                                                     ŷ∈Ŷ y∈Y
If f is an exact match, we recover the evidence recall score from Thorne et al. [2018]. Our metric is as
such a generalization of theirs to the approximate case. In our evaluation, we use the implementation
of METEOR [Banerjee and Lavie, 2005] in NLTK [Bird et al., 2009] as the scoring function f (and
refer to our evidence scoring function as Hungarian METEOR hereafter), but any suitable pairwise
metric could be used. We chose METEOR over other alternatives (e.g., ROUGE [Lin, 2004]) as
it is known to correlate well with human judgments of similarity [Fomicheva and Specia, 2019].
We do not employ a precision metric, as we want to avoid penalizing systems for asking additional
relevant information-seeking questions – however, all systems are limited to a maximum of k = 10
question-answer pairs.
We conduct the evaluation with Hungarian METEOR twice: once using only the questions as input
sequences, and once using the concatenation of questions and answers. A subtask of AV ERI T E C is
to ask the right questions – as we discuss in Section 7.2, good questions are very useful as search
queries even if not accompanied by a good answer. Finding the right angle to criticize a claim is
a substantial task by itself; it covers the creativity factor in retrieval discussed by Arnold [2020].
Including the question-only score allows comparison of systems along this axis as well. To evaluate
veracity predictions and justifications, we use a cutoff of f (ŷ, y) ≥ λ to determine whether correct
evidence has been retrieved (using concatenated questions and answers); any claim for which the
evidence score is lower receives veracity and justification scores of 0.
 Many claims can be verified through alternative evidence formulations. Taking an example from
 the 100 claims annotated twice for Section 5, one annotator might produce the question-answer pair
“Where did South Africa rank in alcohol consumption? In 2016, South Africa ranked ninth out of 53
 African countries.” while another produces “What’s the average alcohol consumption per person in
 South Africa? 7.1 litres.”. These may both be valid ways of establishing the relative levels of alcohol
 consumption between South Africa and other countries. We recognize that our evaluation approach
 can penalize systems for selecting an alternative evidence path; nevertheless, we argue that automatic
 evaluation on this task is helpful in model development. We note that a similar phenomenon was seen
 for the original FEVER dataset [Thorne et al., 2018], despite the artificial claims and the exclusive use
 of Wikipedia as an evidence source. There, the authors suggested crowd-sourced human evaluation
 as a more reliable alternative – we echo their recommendation. Our annotation process hints at a
 potential setup for human evaluation: judging if a body of evidence is sufficient for a verdict is exactly
 what our annotators did during the evidence sufficiency check phase.


                                                     6
    Model                      Q only    Q+A       Veracity @ (.2/.25/.3)   Justifications @ (.2/.25/.3)
    No search                     0.19     0.11    0.03   0.02      0.01    0.02   0.01            0.01
    Gold evidence                 1.00     1.00    0.49   0.49      0.49    0.28   0.28            0.28
    AV ERI T E C -BLOOM-7b        0.26     0.21    0.23   0.15      0.00    0.11   0.07            0.05
    gpt-3.5-turbo                 0.29     0.16    0.17   0.10      0.06    0.06   0.04            0.02

Table 3: Results for the AV ERI T E C baseline and ChatGPT (gpt3.5-turbo). Retrieval scores both for
questions and for questions + answers are given in terms of Hungarian METEOR score. Veracity
and justifications are scored using accuracy and METEOR respectively, in both cases conditioned on
correct evidence retrieved at λ = {0.2, 0.25, 0.3} (see Section 6). We report results for three versions
of the baseline, as discussed in Section 7.2: a version that uses no evidence (no search), a version that
uses gold evidence (gold evidence), and the full pipeline described in Section 7.1 (AV ERI T E C). We
also report results for gpt-3.5-turbo (ChatGPT).


We further note that our metric is straightforward to extend to cover evaluation with multiple reference
sets. Given a set of sets of question-answer pairs R representing different questioning strategies, a
best-matching score could be computed as max uf (Ŷ , Y ). As such, if AV ERI T E C was expanded
                                              Y ∈R
with annotations for alternative questioning strategies, our metric could score models on these as
well.
To understand how our metric should be interpreted, we also computed Hungarian METEOR scores
between the question-answer pairs generated during the two rounds of annotation used for inter-
annotator agreement in Section 5. At 0.28 for questions and 0.22 for questions and answers, these
results are quite low, highlighting the difficulty of automatic evaluation for this task. Investigating
claims with low agreement scores, we see that these are actually often a result of different annotators
using different evidence sources for the same verdict, or phrasing equivalent question-answer pairs dif-
ferently. Based on our observations of human annotations, we recommend λ = 0.25 as an appropriate
cutoff value for our metric. We refer to this metric (for veracity prediction) as AV ERI T E C score.


7     Experiments

7.1    Baseline Model

Our baseline is a pipeline consisting of several components: generation of search questions, search,
generation of questions given retrieved evidence, reranking of retrieved evidence, veracity prediction,
and generation of justifications. For each step in the pipeline, we carried out experiments with
several models. Using our training set, we finetuned, respectively, BERT-large [Devlin et al., 2019]
for classification (340M parameters) and BART-large [Lewis et al., 2020] for generation (406M
parameters). We furthermore tried a few-shot setup, prompting a large language model (LLM) with
retrieved in-context examples [Liu et al., 2022, Rubin et al., 2022] from our training set. Here, we tried
the 7b parameter BLOOM model [Scao et al., 2022] and the 13b parameter Vicuna model [Chiang
et al., 2023]. We limited ourselves to relatively small models, as we consider runnability crucial for a
baseline: all our components can be run on a single Nvidia A100 GPU. As such, our baseline strikes
a balance between performance and computational cost.

Search Given a claim, we retrieve evidence documents from the internet using the Google Search
API. Following Karadzhov et al. [2017], we use a reduced version of the claim keeping only verbs,
nouns, and adjectives as the search term. As we did during annotation, we limit the API to documents
published before the estimated date of the claim. We keep all unique documents in the first 30 search
results. Initial experiments showed that questions were very useful as additional search terms. As
the model does not have access to gold questions during testing, we instead generate questions. We
experimented with three models: BART-large, bloom-7b, and Vicuna-13b. Surprisingly, BLOOM
performed the best, beating the newer and larger Vicuna; we attribute this primarily to greater topical
diversity in the set of questions generated, and thus greater variety in the retrieved evidence pages.
We rely on prompting with retrieved in-context examples [Liu et al., 2022, Rubin et al., 2022]. We
use BM25 [Robertson and Zaragoza, 2009] to find the 10 most similar claims from the training set,


                                                     7
and use their annotated questions to construct a prompt, with which we generate questions for the
claim using BLOOM. We tested {1,3,5,10} in-context examples, finding 10 to perform the best. The
full prompt can be seen in Appendix D.1. We add any new unique documents retrieved by searching
for these generated questions. This can be seen as a form of query expansion [Mao et al., 2021].

Evidence Selection Once a set of evidence documents has been created for each claim, we pick
N = 3 sentences from this set. We first apply a coarse filter to the evidence set, ranking evidence
sentences by BM25 score computed against the claim, and discard those outside the top 100. Then,
we generate a question for each sentence that is answerable by that sentence, again using BLOOM.
We tested {1,3,5,10} in-context examples, finding 10 to perform the best. The full prompt can be seen
in Appendix D.2. We then re-rank these question-answer pairs to find the ones most relevant for the
claim, using a finetuned BERT-large model [Devlin et al., 2019] (for more details, see Appendix E.1).
This somewhat counter-intuitive strategy of retrieving first and then generating questions can be
seen as using the generated questions to bridge claims to distantly related evidence sentences. Our
approach is similar to the document expansion strategy proposed for question answering in Nogueira
et al. [2019], except applied for reranking rather than the initial retrieval step.

Veracity Prediction Once question-answer pairs have been generated, we produce verdicts through
a stance detection strategy inspired by past work on filtering evidence [Hanselowski et al., 2019].
We use a finetuned BERT-large model to label each question-answer pair as supporting, refuting, or
being irrelevant to the question (for more details, see Appendix E.2). We then deterministically label
the claim as follows: 1) if the claim has both supporting and refuting evidence, label it conflicting
evidence/cherrypicking. 2) If the claim has only supporting question-answer pairs, label it supported;
similar for refuted. 3) Otherwise, label the claim not enough evidence. We tested three different
models for veracity prediction: BERT-large, bloom-7b1, and Vicuna-13b. We found BERT to perform
better by a slight margin; using gold evidence, we obtained macro-F1 scores of .49, .43, and .48 for
the three models respectively.

Justification Generation The final step is to generate a textual justification for the verdict. Here,
we rely on BART-large [Lewis et al., 2020] finetuned on our training set (for more details, see
Appendix E.3). We use the concatenation of the claim and the retrieved evidence as input; we tried
adding the predicted veracity as well, but saw no improvements to performance. We again tested
three models: BART-large, bloom-7b1, and Vicuna-13b, respectively obtaining a METEOR score
of .28, .23, and .25. Based on our qualitative analysis of 20 claims, the justifications generated by
Vicuna are very good, but the model is penalized for being overly verbose – Vicuna generates 36
tokens on average, compared to 21 in the gold data.

7.2   Results

We evaluate as discussed in Section 6. We include results in Table 3 at three thresholds for comparison,
although we encourage λ = 0.25. We compare our baseline to two other models: one without access
to search, and one using gold question-answer pairs as evidence.
For the no search model, we use prompting to generate questions, following the approach described
in Appendix D.1. We leave all answers as “No answer could be found”. Generating answers is not an
option, as answers must be supported by sources. We use BERT-large finetuned on the training data
to predict veracity labels (without any evidence), and the same prompting strategy as discussed in
Section 7.1 to generate justifications. For the gold evidence model, we use the gold question-answer
pairs provided by our annotators in the place of generated questions and retrieved evidence. That is,
we test only the veracity prediction and justification production components.
Analysing retrieval results on the development set, we still find λ = 0.25 to be a good cutoff point
for the AV ERI T E C veracity and justification metrics. For borderline question-answer pairs this
threshold is high enough that all important information must be produced to meet it, but there is still
some room for paraphrasing and partial evidence.
Our baseline has decent performance at λ = 0.2 and λ = 0.25, but does not perform well at higher
evidence cutoff points. Because of the structure of our pipeline – generate search terms, retrieve and
rerank evidence, generate questions to match the reranked evidence – our baseline struggles to match
specific evidence sets. If the retrieved evidence paragraph is very short, e.g., a table cell reading


                                                   8
